Unice Harris: Good morning. Can you hear me?
PARTICIPANT 1 Good morning. Yes, I can thank you so much for joining your participation is invaluable to my study.
Unice Harris: How's everything going?
PARTICIPANT 1It's it's been good, that
PARTICIPANT 1kind  of surprised of our local. Yeah. My chapter.
PARTICIPANT 1hope they're doing. Okay. I sent them some talks and stuff I could do this year, but haven't really heard back. business was going good this year.
Unice Harris: Yeah, I didn't know you were doing a PhD program. Oh, yeah, I'm doing a a Dba actually doctorate in business administration. And once we are.
Unice Harris: once we are done with the questions. I'll talk to you about Pmi. The local chapter.
Unice Harris:  it! It's it's very interesting. So I'll I'll go ahead and get started. Let me just start with this question. Please confirm with the yes or no answer that you and I are not personal best friends or personal acquaintances. We're not hanging out at each other's houses and things of that nature. So just a yes or no answer there.
PARTICIPANT 1Yes.
Unice Harris: perfect. Thank you, I know.
Thank you.
Unice Harris: So let's go ahead and get started. The first question. And again I am doing my study on
the BENEFITS. Of incorporating CHANGE MANAGEMENT into DIGITAL TRANSFORMATIONs. Again, been around the DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION landscape for about 20 years now.
Unice Harris: Before they even started calling it DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION. So question number one during the initiation or other phase or start of the PROJECT, can you share a time when you communicated the PURPOSE of the DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION PROJECT to the ORGANIZATION, and how it would enhance or help the ORGANIZATION. So share a time where you were doing maybe
Unice Harris: a gaming TRANSFORMATION or other TRANSFORMATION. And you communicated
Unice Harris: the PURPOSE of that to the ORGANIZATION or to the TEAM that you were working with.
PARTICIPANT 1Sure.
PARTICIPANT 1so I guess one example, I was working on a initiative to get PEOPLE virtual desktops or CLOUD based workspaces.
PARTICIPANT 1And
PARTICIPANT 1for the PROJECT. So this was relatively NEW, and and prior to that
PARTICIPANT 1 you know, folks were spread out across the ORGANIZATIONs networks or across the country.
PARTICIPANT 1And like, I remember, I heard a story
PARTICIPANT 1that
PARTICIPANT 1that someone would like their computer would take 30 min to start up so they'd go and make coffee and do all this other stuff. and
PARTICIPANT 1I really had to drill in with the IT folks to be clear on the business BENEFITS of of this, because we got PEOPLE converted over. They started to see that
PARTICIPANT 1that they could have greater efficiency. And then we also had a SURVEY where we were tracking what PEOPLE said PEOPLE would share comments with me. We tried to address them
PARTICIPANT 1 so I think, showing the BENEFITS
PARTICIPANT 1in that instance. And I think in some of the other stuff I've done. I think it's more than just at the beginning. It's It's reminding them, because because I think sometimes
PARTICIPANT 1we can all get stuck in.
PARTICIPANT 1Our world went to work, and we might forget the PURPOSE of of a PROJECT or a
PARTICIPANT 1DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION. So I think reminding them is helpful.
PARTICIPANT 1Did did that answer that? Thank you for that?
Unice Harris: Yep, it did.
Unice Harris: How did you communicate it? Was it like a corporate wide EMAIL, or a MEETING, or other sharepoint? Or how did you communicate those BENEFITS?
PARTICIPANT 1I think it was a mix of those II think. We, we definitely used ORGANIZATION wide EMAILS.
PARTICIPANT 1We had some live TRAINING sessions where PEOPLE could ask questions.
PARTICIPANT 1We had a SURVEY that we would track. So as PEOPLE got convert over to the NEW CLOUD based workspace that
PARTICIPANT 1you know, we would look and see
PARTICIPANT 1about the usability of it like if if it was sticky or not, and then what comments PEOPLE had, and and at the end we had a
PARTICIPANT 1kind of a closing SURVEY, where we threw on some other questions
PARTICIPANT 1and the insights we got is not only interesting
PARTICIPANT 1for that initiative, but also for
PARTICIPANT 1other stuff to keep in mind regarding virtual workspaces.
Unice Harris: Okay? So when you communicated this, do you feel like it helped
Unice Harris: minimize confusion about the BENEFITS of CHANGE MAANAGEMENT and
PARTICIPANT 1hmm!
PARTICIPANT 1BENEFITS of CHANGE MAANAGEMENT. Did you have another part to that question?
Unice Harris: Yep, let me So when you communicated the BENEFITS of  how the SYSTEM would
Unice Harris: impact them when you communicated the BENEFITS of the virtual desktop. Do you feel like it? Minimize confusion about the PURPOSE of the PROJECT.
PARTICIPANT 1My communicator.
Unice Harris: when you did the
Unice Harris: when you did the ORGANIZATION-wide, EMAIL or the ORGANIZATION wide MEETING and talk to them about the BENEFITS of the desktop rollout PROJECT that you were implemented.
Unice Harris: Did it seem to minimize confusion amongst the PEOPLE that are go? We're going to use it.
PARTICIPANT 1Hmm!
I think in some ways it did. But I think the other challenge, too, is that
PARTICIPANT 1when you think about  So so there's this book that I read about. It's called The 4 Disciplines of Execution, and
PARTICIPANT 1in the book the author argues that we all have. He calls it like a like a whirlwind. So it's like our day to day stuff.
PARTICIPANT 1And then there's stuff outside of that. We have to do so kind of similar in a ORGANIZATION. You've got your day to day stuff, and then your PROJECT stuff. And
PARTICIPANT 1I think that the reason why we did we tried to communicate consistently
PARTICIPANT 1is because I think PEOPLE PEOPLE forget.
PARTICIPANT 1or if they're on vacation, they might not understand.
PARTICIPANT 1And then you might have some PEOPLE that are resistant to CHANGE. And so.
PARTICIPANT 1 you know, helping them become a part of that CHANGE. So so pairing them up with you know PEOPLE to SUPPORT them
PARTICIPANT 1or possibly contacting their supervisors. I mean that one's not obviously not an ideal way to start, but if it would get that bad? So I I'd say
PARTICIPANT 1having frequent COMMUNICATION, but then also reminding them.
Unice Harris: I think it also helps them remember
PARTICIPANT 1the overall end goal. So so why, we're doing the PROJECT in the first place. So that way in the middle. you know, one of the sponsors wouldn't try to pull the plug
PARTICIPANT 1we were doing this CHANGE.
Unice Harris: Okay.
Unice Harris: thank you for that.
Unice Harris:  can you share a time? Can you also share a time where you did not communicate the PURPOSE of the TRANSFORMATION or the PURPOSE
Unice Harris: just of the PROJECT.
Unice Harris: And maybe you don't have a time. Yeah, some. Some. In in many cases. I know for me. When I start a PROJECT I'm pulling everybody together, and I'm communicating. This is why we're doing the PROJECT. This is the PURPOSE of it.
But not everybody does it that way. So is there a time where you didn't share the PURPOSE of the PROJECT, and it caused a little bit of confusion or chaos, and if you always do that, you know, you can just kind of say, no, there's never been a time. I always let PEOPLE know what's you know the PURPOSE of the PROJECT
PARTICIPANT 1PURPOSE?
PARTICIPANT 1That's a good question. I would say that
PARTICIPANT 1that that I think it's always important to remember the PURPOSE, and I can't really think of a
PARTICIPANT 1PROJECT where I didn't share that, I would say for some of the PROJECT work I inherited
PARTICIPANT 1when I had associates leave there was one where I came in. I think it was like 40% complete. And II just remember
PARTICIPANT 1it. It was such. It was such a weird PROJECT, because,
PARTICIPANT 1the group that wanted it done.
PARTICIPANT 1They claimed it was their number one priority, but it really didn't feel like it. And
probably should have done more to
PARTICIPANT 1to drive it home about the BENEFITS and stuff and
PARTICIPANT 1ironically. So after I left. So
PARTICIPANT 1you know, they spent all this time behind schedule on the SYSTEM. They ended up not using it.
PARTICIPANT 1So so I think that's an example.
PARTICIPANT 1probably more with PROJECT Manager prior to me coming in that there was just confusion about the BENEFITS. And
remember
PARTICIPANT 1some PEOPLE were upset about it. They they felt like that PROJECT shouldn't have taken as long as it did that it should have went faster.
So I guess that's an example. Where.
PARTICIPANT 1if if the BENEFITS have been clearer. if there had been more urgency, it probably could have been done a lot faster.
Unice Harris: I get that I definitely get that? Okay.
perfect.
Unice Harris:  question number 2,
Unice Harris: during the requirements or any other phase of the TRANSFORMATION. Can you share how you informed cross functional TEAMS or the ORGANIZATION as a whole.
of how the TRANSFORMATION would impact them specifically, and how it would affect or impact or enhance
Unice Harris: how they do their work, and I think you touched on that. I think you already answered that to a certain degree. So that's saying,
we're starting this PROJECT, let's say, in this area. But it's going to affect multiple different business areas or business units or DEPARTMENTs.
Unice Harris: and so if you could share.
Unice Harris: How you informed those different areas.
Unice Harris: how it would impact them and how it would enhance their work
Unice Harris: or how it would impact their work.
PARTICIPANT 1Okay? So I think there's a couple pieces today. I think the first part in terms of the ORGANIZATION as a whole.  you know, I think doing some kind of or at least having some idea of the the impact across different functional areas.
PARTICIPANT 1 you know, going back to finding CHAMPIONs.
PARTICIPANT 1EMAIL. So finding place to, you know, communicate multiple times. And then.
PARTICIPANT 1I think also to engage different COMMUNICATION styles. So we had reference articles which would be more for a
PARTICIPANT 1like a visual person.
PARTICIPANT 1or auditory. You know, we made videos for folks that prefer to cure stuff
PARTICIPANT 1is their main learning style. And then for folks that are more hands-on, we offered opportunities for TESTING
PARTICIPANT 1and early engagement with
PARTICIPANT 1the SYSTEM. I think at a DEPARTMENT level.
PARTICIPANT 1So being clear on the STAKEHOLDERS that are affected especially the ones that have the highest impact.
PARTICIPANT 1And being clear on
PARTICIPANT 1what they currently do. So the current state. But then what the future state would look like. So so explain the BENEFITS of that NEW SYSTEM, and then
PARTICIPANT 1helping guide them from the current state to the future state
PARTICIPANT 1and helping them realize that they don't have to do it by themselves, that the ORGANIZATION's a TEAM and it shouldn't just be one functional area
PARTICIPANT 1 leading an initiative that
PARTICIPANT 1affects other areas or the ORGANIZATION as a whole.
And I think if the impact is big enough
PARTICIPANT 1on some of the large functional areas, then
PARTICIPANT 1and I think you've heard me talk about this. It might require a steering committee.
PARTICIPANT 1so group of executives or managers. That could be informed on what's happening. But then, also, if there's issues, you could bring it to them. So that way, you can get those resolved quickly
PARTICIPANT 1and not slow down a a DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION or initiative.
Unice Harris: Okay? And once you did that?
Unice Harris: Did the ORGANIZATION seem to be receptive about the CHANGE, or hesitant about the CHANGE? And then after knowing how the CHANGE would enhance. How they work. Did they have a desire to be more involved?
PARTICIPANT 1So I think, after doing all that stuff, I think they were more receptive to the CHANGE. I think, regardless of
PARTICIPANT 1How much you plan. I always think of CHANGE in terms of the the curve from Rogers. So you've got the
PARTICIPANT 1you know, you have the folks that are like a couple of percent that are.
PARTICIPANT 1you know, the early adopters. Then you've got your early majority.
PARTICIPANT 1And your CHANGE really doesn't stick until you get to that middle majority. So so on on PROJECTs. I'm always thinking, how do we get more PEOPLE toward that middle majority, faster in in a way that makes sense.
PARTICIPANT 1For the functional areas. II think working with them pretty closely, especially as you get close to deployment and post deployment, I think that that helps
PARTICIPANT 1address concerns also having them involved in TESTING and giving feedback and and doing that in a
PARTICIPANT 1environment where they can feel heard. Cause. I think some of the times I think some of the fear PEOPLE have with CHANGES that you know their voice will get drowned out, or they they won't feel heard.
PARTICIPANT 1 Even if their ideas are not adopted as long as they feel like someone listened to them.
PARTICIPANT 1They'll be more open to the CHANGE, and I think from a steering committee level. It's just making sure the managers. The executives are sponsors
PARTICIPANT 1 that they're aware of what's coming, what's going on?
PARTICIPANT 1And they have the knowledge to be able to make decisions that affect. You know the whole ORGANIZATION with regards to that DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION.
Unice Harris: Got it?
Unice Harris: And once you implemented your DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION, did the PROJECT eventually increase revenue
PARTICIPANT 1to increase revenue.
Unice Harris: And maybe that wasn't the PURPOSE of the PROJECT. I mean, some DIGITAL TRANSFORMATIONs just upgrade SYSTEMS. They don't have the ultimate end goal of increasing revenue. So
PARTICIPANT 1hmm
PARTICIPANT 1I think for some of the work I did it. It did increase REVENUEor at least open up NEW business opportunities, and then.
PARTICIPANT 1I think, for other PROJECTs. So so I mentioned the the virtual desktops.
PARTICIPANT 1 I still think there's a dollar value on efficiency gained or cost savings. So II do think there was a BENEFIT. It was just more
PARTICIPANT 1internally focused versus external.
Unice Harris: Okay.
Unice Harris: thank you for that.
Unice Harris: Alright. Let's get down to question number 3.
Unice Harris: So in the design phase or any other phase before development. The DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION life cycle, can you share how you provide us? Some kind of TRAINING relative to the PROCESS TECHNOLOGY or NEW TRANSFORMATION initiative.
Unice Harris: and I say, in design phase, or any other phase. How did you go about providing TRAINING for the NEW initiative. And then, if you can also share a time where you didn't provide any TRAINING.
Unice Harris: and I think you really already covered that in a previous question, I think you had already talked about that but now we're here, so
PARTICIPANT 1no that's fine
PARTICIPANT 1I think the TRAINING piece is important, because it goes back to the learning styles but giving PEOPLE sense of ownership, so showing them that
PARTICIPANT 1that. They don't have to do this CHANGE by themselves that they  you know, that's okay for them to make
PARTICIPANT 1some mistakes before something goes live. I'm
PARTICIPANT 1so II think, a mix of stuff. So so doing. So like, we're we're on a recording right now. You know, recording TRAINING sessions making those accessible
PARTICIPANT 1SUPPORT articles.
PARTICIPANT 1 you know, finding a group of early adopters
PARTICIPANT 1finding CHAMPIONs within different functional areas. So they can. you know, instead of someone coming to me as the PROJECT manager that could go to someone
PARTICIPANT 1closer to them or colleague, they might know
PARTICIPANT 1but but I think to when doing
PARTICIPANT 1TEAM MEETINGS or in between TEAM MEETINGS just being open to
PARTICIPANT 1listening to what PEOPLE have to say. even if it's not what you want to hear. I've I've had times where PEOPLE have said bad stuff about an initiative and
PARTICIPANT 1you have. You have to show empathy and understanding
PARTICIPANT 1and do what you can to help them, but also recognize that there's limits that
PARTICIPANT 1we don't have unlimited budget and time
PARTICIPANT 1 And to some extent I think that's okay. Cause when you're putting stuff out there, it doesn't
PARTICIPANT 1have to be totally perfect. So I think, making sure when you're doing TRAINING. you know, recognizing that.
PARTICIPANT 1that some of this stuff will be iterative. You'll put something out there. And then there might be another phase or update
PARTICIPANT 1and you know, with that, making sure you update materials. So that way, if you bring on NEW folks or PEOPLE near refresher, it's it's as current as it can be.
PARTICIPANT 1 and I think that's where where I see ORGANIZATIONs fall down is the knowledge, transfer and the knowledge acquisition.
PARTICIPANT 1 II think for some of the initiatives, I've seen where they've been less SUCCESSFUL. They haven't been.
PARTICIPANT 1you know, these are initiatives. I've heard about that haven't been managed by me.
PARTICIPANT 1Ii think that's one of the reasons why they fail is because  they're so focused on. you know, gain the TECHNOLOGY right and improving a PROCESS that they forget about the PEOPLE that will
PARTICIPANT 1be using a SYSTEM and ultimately have to to live with it in the long term
Unice Harris: that makes perfect sense.
Unice Harris: is there a time? Where or can you share a time where you
Unice Harris: didn't provide TRAINING? Is there an implementation somewhere in your years of experience, where you guys just kinda through the SYSTEM out there?
Unice Harris: implemented the SYSTEM and didn't provide the TRAINING. And how did that impact?  the implementation?
PARTICIPANT 1Hmm! That's another good question.
PARTICIPANT 1 this might sound like a strange answer. But when I was working on
PARTICIPANT 1 introducing the the course with Minecraft.
PARTICIPANT 1and so we'd engage the It DEPARTMENT. We got funding and approval to do it.
PARTICIPANT 1 And and you know II put this plan together, and I said, Let's do TESTING and this and that  while we we didn't hear back from that group and
PARTICIPANT 1you know. It came down closer to to the go live date and  we had issues because we didn't take the time to do TESTING
PARTICIPANT 1you know. Luckily we're able to to mitigate that pretty quickly. I had a workaround, but you know, if I hadn't jumped in
PARTICIPANT 1then You know that initiative might have failed. So so I think. And you know, the the reason why that happened was because the
PARTICIPANT 1the SYSTEM we were using, we thought it could be used in a certain way, and it turned out it couldn't and and we didn't know
PARTICIPANT 1because we we hadn't done that that research ahead of time.
PARTICIPANT 1And another part is something NEW. So when you're working on something innovative, or if you, you're like one of the first adopters.
PARTICIPANT 1I think, going along with that that CHANGE MAANAGEMENT curve I mentioned.
PARTICIPANT 1 so in a in a PROJECT, you can have those early adopters.
PARTICIPANT 1They'll find some of those challenges. Well, if you're an ORGANIZATION and you're one of the first adopters of a SYSTEM like Work Day, for instance.
PARTICIPANT 1you know, you'll be in that early Adopter phase, too. So finding issues and stuff that
PARTICIPANT 1 you know the vendor or ORGANIZATION providing that product or service that that they hadn't realized either.
PARTICIPANT 1Did did that answer their question?
Unice Harris: Yep.
Unice Harris: that answered it perfectly. Let's see, let's go down to question number 4,
Unice Harris: and I think you just answered this one. In the TESTING phase of the TRANSFORMATION. Can you share a time where you tested the NEW TECHNOLOGY PROCESS? Maybe a user acceptance test or a SYSTEMS integration test and to confirm that it worked the way that it should.
PARTICIPANT 1I've actually done that a lot. I've had. PEOPLE say, I'm really good at TESTING, because
cause I make sure it's urgent. So you know, setting that that schedule
PARTICIPANT 1 as time went on, for some of these SYSTEMS
PARTICIPANT 1I would be involved in in some maintenance updates. And
PARTICIPANT 1we develop TESTING plans. So we ask PEOPLE, you know, what are
PARTICIPANT 1common functions that you use, and then we document that in an excel sheet.
PARTICIPANT 1and then I could send it to them. I could say, You know, here's a TESTING plan. Here's the the areas you've mentioned before.
PARTICIPANT 1 if they had NEW areas they could throw it in there. But I think doing that. And then
PARTICIPANT 1you know, giving PEOPLE clear expectations. Communicating across the ORGANIZATION. Hey, this update or CHANGE is coming. SYSTEMS gonna be down, you know, for ABC,
PARTICIPANT 1on this day from this time to that time. Also having PEOPLE there to test when you go live. So having folks test on the weekend.
PARTICIPANT 1Now what I really would have loved. And I'm hoping NEWer SYSTEMS have this
PARTICIPANT 1 is having automated TESTING
PARTICIPANT 1so where you could have
PARTICIPANT 1like a a I or something, go in and
PARTICIPANT 1and help with TESTING. Now I don't think it'll replace PEOPLE.  maybe in the distant future it could
PARTICIPANT 1but for for the SYSTEMS I was working on. They were very dated. And so so you couldn't do You know, you couldn't use automated tools for TESTING
PARTICIPANT 1 And then, you know, some post deployment SUPPORT. So I think, you know, recognizing there was a cycle for TESTING that you didn't just test and then be done and get ready to deploy
PARTICIPANT 1but really using that feedback, or at least the validating that the SYSTEM worked.
PARTICIPANT 1That that was just as important as the PROCESS of doing the TESTING itself.
Unice Harris: Was there a time that you didn't do TESTING? And how? How different was that?
PARTICIPANT 1Hmm. Well, I think the example I mentioned earlier about about Minecraft. We had gotten surprised. And it's it's kind of ironic. We actually discovered a product flaw.
PARTICIPANT 1 that
PARTICIPANT 1that when Microsoft designed the education edition of the game, they didn't imagine PEOPLE would be playing it online. They imagined it in a classroom where you have computers on a land network all connected.
PARTICIPANT 1So I think sometimes when you do TESTING. you discover
PARTICIPANT 1flaws in a product or service, and I think it's important to notify the vendor about that. So so do like a corrective action. Request, or at least make them aware.
PARTICIPANT 1so they can try to try to improve that
PARTICIPANT 1I'm
PARTICIPANT 1there. I've been pretty good about TESTING on the stuff II try to to do. But
PARTICIPANT 1There are horror stories I've heard where where SYSTEMS have been thrown out there.
From lack of TESTING.
PARTICIPANT 1And you know, I think it can be costly. I mean, imagine doing all this work on something, and then PEOPLE don't use it.
PARTICIPANT 1It's a
PARTICIPANT 1it's a waste of time. And the other part, too, is that you? You know you don't get that time and money back. That's a sunk cost. You can't recover.
PARTICIPANT 1 II think.
PARTICIPANT 1you know, I think some of this also ties into innovation. So
PARTICIPANT 1with the Minecraft class and program, I, I've worked on for several years.
PARTICIPANT 1It was part of a initiative to innovate
PARTICIPANT 1and different aspects of of education or courses.
PARTICIPANT 1And I think the the problem with the program is that it encouraged PEOPLE to pursue all these ideas.
PARTICIPANT 1But then, once PEOPLE did their pilot, there was no follow up. So you know, recognizing with with CHANGE and DIGITAL TRANSFORMATIONs that
PARTICIPANT 1in some ways I almost think of it kinda like a flower like you know you
PARTICIPANT 1you you know you plant the seed, you let it grow, you SUPPORT it.
PARTICIPANT 1but then you have to keep letting it grow and keep SUPPORTing it. So recognizing that that sometimes it's more than just a one time investment that it could be recurring.
PARTICIPANT 1 and you know, I saw
PARTICIPANT 1some really innovative stuff that never got SUPPORTed.
PARTICIPANT 1And it basically became like a bridge to nowhere.
PARTICIPANT 1So no clear prioritization. And I think that that they lost out on some of the opportunities and REVENUEthey could have made from those
Unice Harris: Umhm. Okay.
Unice Harris: I think you just answered this next question, and I'm gonna ask it for the PURPOSE of asking it. And if you wanna add something more to it. I think the planning this lead and letting the flower grow is the perfect response to this question. After rolling out into production, how were
Unice Harris: users, employees, and STAKEHOLDERS allowed to offer feedback relative to what worked in production and what seemed not to work so smoothly.
PARTICIPANT 1Well, I think I think a mix of stuff. So doing. SURVEYs. you know, making sure. So in the context of it, like the
PARTICIPANT 1SUPPORT staff, or where the CHANGES coming.
PARTICIPANT 1You know, having those CHAMPIONs and those resources. Doing a you know, having a a post deployment SUPPORT period for for a while for a couple of weeks, maybe a month.
PARTICIPANT 1Could be more if it's a bigger initiative. But
PARTICIPANT 1Recognizing that when you deploy something that that's not the end.
PARTICIPANT 1That's just the end of
PARTICIPANT 1you know the, you know, spending months of requirements gathering, building something or finding a vendor
PARTICIPANT 1but that requires SUPPORT. And then in your PROJECT closing you know, clarifying. You know those roles and responsibilities going forward so that way the PROJECT manager can step out of that
PARTICIPANT 1and go on to something else. And then that NEW SYSTEM.
PARTICIPANT 1eventually becomes just kind of normalized.
PARTICIPANT 1Did did that top?
Unice Harris: Okay.
Unice Harris: let's see, question number 6,
Unice Harris:  and I think you
Unice Harris: talked about this as well. But I have to ask the questions as we progress through them, and if you could. If you don't mind repeating you just have some very interesting stories and experiences. Can you share
Unice Harris: an example of a DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION or TRANSFORMATION that went very well. Also one that didn't go very well. What did you do differently between the 2?
PARTICIPANT 1Okay. So I guess I'll start with the one that didn't go. Well. and I guess this is me kind of looking back at it now.
PARTICIPANT 1 so I was working on implementing a NEW and innovative AI SYSTEM. And I think initially, we were getting some traction.
PARTICIPANT 1We had a lot of interest. We had. We. you know our user base grew very quickly, but the problem we had was that it was not sticky enough.
PARTICIPANT 1So it's like it'd be like, for instance, you have a application. There's 10,000 users, but
PARTICIPANT 1only a thousand PEOPLE are using it. and out of those 1,000 there may be using it once or twice, and then.
PARTICIPANT 1you know, going on to something else.
PARTICIPANT 1 you know, there, there were challenges with ORGANIZATIONal commitment.
PARTICIPANT 1you know, we didn't have funding to SUPPORT a wide adoption.
PARTICIPANT 1The the initiative got d prioritized.
PARTICIPANT 1and I think there weren't enough resources to to SUPPORT it longer. Term I think you had some heroic efforts by folks including myself.
PARTICIPANT 1You know, looking at creating those opportunities to leverage. But
PARTICIPANT 1you know, it's like I was saying with the plant, you know you grow the plant, and then. if you don't SUPPORT it sadly, it dies off. And  I think that's what happened with that initiative.
PARTICIPANT 1But you know, I can look back like II did what I could. And I think, as individuals, we have to realize that that that's okay, that
PARTICIPANT 1you know, you can't always win. You can just do the best you can
PARTICIPANT 1and try to build up the PEOPLE around you so they can be SUCCESSFUL in terms of an initiative that I think went really well.
PARTICIPANT 1 I led a implementation of a event MAANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
PARTICIPANT 1So prior to that SYSTEM.
PARTICIPANT 1We're using a older SYSTEM. And stuff was just really uncoordinated. You know, lack of COMMUNICATION or
PARTICIPANT 1or the right STAKEHOLDERS being involved for the right event. and
PARTICIPANT 1Initially, the schedule was aggressive to get the SYSTEM in, but we extended it a little bit.
To allow for
PARTICIPANT 1you know that TESTING phase, having a good deployment
PARTICIPANT 1post deployment SUPPORT and then making sure that we met all the STAKEHOLDER requirements. And I'm happy to say that that SYSTEM still being used today.
PARTICIPANT 1and it resolved a lot of the issues that
PARTICIPANT 1there were before that was introduced. And I think what we did differently with that one. I think that
PARTICIPANT 1you know, we had good resourcing. There's a commitment to sustain that SYSTEM in the long term and
PARTICIPANT 1you know, the TEAM was engaged. We had TESTING and and it was just a good SYSTEM. I think, that.
PARTICIPANT 1Now, I wasn't involved in the the vendor selection PROCESS. But I think that that went really well. And that's why it's still going today.
Unice Harris: Okay? And did that. So SYSTEM eventually increase revenue.
PARTICIPANT 1Hmm.
PARTICIPANT 1well, so I think the example I gave you is more of an internal facing initiative. But II do think that there is a productivity gain
PARTICIPANT 1and an internal efficiency that I think translates back into cost savings.
PARTICIPANT 1 in terms of the labor cost. And you know, reducing their cost of failure.
Unice Harris: Okay.
Unice Harris: question. Number 7.
Unice Harris: Can you share any activity taken to create a DIGITAL mind set within the ORGANIZATION?
Has it helped or hurt the willingness to CHANGE.
PARTICIPANT 1Hmm! Efforts.
PARTICIPANT 1Well, I think that
PARTICIPANT 1having cross functional MEETINGS looking at CHANGE or or emerging initiatives
PARTICIPANT 1something I did. I created a like a special interest group to look at. You know, articles or videos.
PARTICIPANT 1but then also bring PEOPLE together in a positive way.
PARTICIPANT 1 I think that that worked. But I think eventually, and you know, so keep in mind some of the stuff I'm talking about happened during the the pandemic. So when there's, you know, massive disruption
PARTICIPANT 1there just wasn't a
PARTICIPANT 1commitment from others to sustain stuff. And you know, had to let some of that go, but
PARTICIPANT 1I think encouraging PEOPLE to experiment with NEW ideas.
PARTICIPANT 1You know, share, share their points of view.
PARTICIPANT 1I think in some ways in the ORGANIZATION. It's hard because the ORGANIZATIONs trying to balance you know the needs of MAANAGEMENT. So so having control.
PARTICIPANT 1But then, you know, giving PEOPLE some ownership in encouraging them to be entrepreneurs. Even if it's within a ORGANIZATION so not necessarily making a like a small business
PARTICIPANT 1 and and being more agile, II think that
PARTICIPANT 1that that's hard to do. And
PARTICIPANT 1most companies aren't structured for that. So II think across the board, you're seeing ORGANIZATIONs really struggle with that. And
PARTICIPANT 1I also think that
PARTICIPANT 1PEOPLE realize that authority isn't necessarily based on a title.
PARTICIPANT 1That you could. You know you could have a janitor at a school. So someone, you know, at the bottom of the ORGANIZATION chart
PARTICIPANT 1you know, be someone that could help be a positive CHANGE agent
PARTICIPANT 1or a person coming up with ideas. So II think for managers recognizing that
PARTICIPANT 1PEOPLE aren't just machines, that they're organic. They can learn
PARTICIPANT 1and providing those opportunities, I think, helps
PARTICIPANT 1helps the employee realize they have a future.
PARTICIPANT 1But then it comes back to the ORGANIZATION in terms of that innovation. Creativity.
PARTICIPANT 1But then also, I think, eventually a productivity gain.
Unice Harris: Okay? And then in those are some great ideas. in the
Unice Harris: special interest group. Articles? How do you think that impacted them? Did that work in terms of helping them or hurting them in terms of their willingness to CHANGE? With with NEW implementations. I mean, those are some
Unice Harris: really innovative ideas. How did how did it impact? Did it work in terms of their willingness to CHANGE or did it hurt?
PARTICIPANT 1II think it depended on how involved they were. You know, I would also try find videos. So, you know, thinking of those different learning styles?
PARTICIPANT 1We would also try to to do lunch in person. So
PARTICIPANT 1you know, just to come and and talk about what was going well.
PARTICIPANT 1 I tried to be really careful, because in in some groups like that you could have PEOPLE come and
PARTICIPANT 1they'll use it as a venting session to complain about. You know I'm not making ABC. Or you know, why am I not here? Or you know my salary is too low. So, being really thoughtful
PARTICIPANT 1to to recognize the PURPOSE. and not kind of veer from that.
PARTICIPANT 1 I do think there are some instances where you know, having
PARTICIPANT 1some of those conversations.
PARTICIPANT 1Did help with cross functional COMMUNICATION. but I think the issue was that there wasn't a a broader recognition of a need for that. And so
PARTICIPANT 1I think eventually as I had to take on more work and stuff, I had to let it go, which which was really too bad. But II do think that while we were doing that it it did have some kind of effect.
PARTICIPANT 1 But since there wasn't broader commitment. That effect couldn't be magnified across the ORGANIZATION.
PARTICIPANT 1Okay, so what do you got next?
PARTICIPANT 1A
Unice Harris: let's see. how did the TRANSFORMATION give you
Unice Harris: employees, STAKEHOLDERS, the results they were expecting? Or did you get what you were targeting
Unice Harris: after the production?
PARTICIPANT 1 so II think in the context of the
PARTICIPANT 1the special interest group. II think we did. II think that expose PEOPLE to NEW ideas.
PARTICIPANT 1and it brought PEOPLE together in in a way. That
PARTICIPANT 1you know, wasn't very common within that ORGANIZATION. But but again, I think because of
PARTICIPANT 1a lack of longer term SUPPORT. I think eventually it went away.  for for the other PROJECTs I had referenced. So the the virtual desktop initiative.
PARTICIPANT 1 you know. II think that went well. Production wise that's still being used
PARTICIPANT 1the AI adoption. So eventually, you know that that fizzled out because there wasn't enough commitment
PARTICIPANT 1 And then, as as key resources left
PARTICIPANT 1that were involved with the maintenance and SUPPORT for that those were not replaced.
PARTICIPANT 1Those were positions eliminated, or, you know, rePURPOSE to other functional areas
PARTICIPANT 1for the event SYSTEM
PARTICIPANT 1that I mentioned. I definitely think that's still going strong.  And then for the the Minecraft Bork, I mentioned.
PARTICIPANT 1 That's still there, but it's a huge missed opportunity. They have no idea
PARTICIPANT 1how far ahead they are of other PEOPLE.
PARTICIPANT 1and it's brought in revenue, but it could be
PARTICIPANT 1bringing in a lot more.
PARTICIPANT 1So it's it's something I think that's
PARTICIPANT 1from my perspective, been unappreciated.
PARTICIPANT 1And they have to realize that it's it's more than one functional area. It's gotta be
PARTICIPANT 1ORGANIZATION-wide and and cult, you know more of a cultural TRANSFORMATION
Unice Harris:  okay gotcha.
Unice Harris: yeah, here's a question. if you had a SYSTEM that went into production that didn't give you all that you wanted. What were the lessons learned
as an individual?
PARTICIPANT 1Hmm! Didn't give you what you wanted.
Unice Harris: Well, if, for example, you've implemented the desktop
Unice Harris: then the Minecraft, which I think is incredible to be a part of something that huge if
Unice Harris:  after the rollout into production? If has there ever been
Unice Harris: an implementation that didn't give you or the STAKEHOLDERS the end results that you were looking for. And then, if so, what were the lessons learned?
Unice Harris: And I think you answered that because I think you already said that as individuals. We have to realize that we can't always win. So we have to do the best that we can. So for me, that answers the question, do you wanna add anything to that?
PARTICIPANT 1Well, I I think some stuff to add.
PARTICIPANT 1you know, it's it's funny. There's this quote from Machiavelli that I always bring up when I think about CHANGE that you know, in the Prince he says that most dangerous thing a
PARTICIPANT 1prince can do is introduce a NEW order of things or basically CHANGE. And
PARTICIPANT 1II think with everything, even if it's a NEW SYSTEM that can do all this great stuff.
PARTICIPANT 1You have to recognize limitations. So, for example, with the
PARTICIPANT 1the Virtual Workspace
PARTICIPANT 1one of the big issues was that Zoom couldn't work
PARTICIPANT 1because Zoom was designed to be on a physical machine, not in a CLOUD space. You know, with Minecraft.
PARTICIPANT 1There's SYSTEM requirements for it to work properly.
PARTICIPANT 1And then, as we.
PARTICIPANT 1you know, we're facilitating that course experience. We had stuff happen that
PARTICIPANT 1we hadn't thought about, but then also ran into problems.
PARTICIPANT 1Which we addressed.
PARTICIPANT 1You know, I
PARTICIPANT 1I think some of it is recognizing that
PARTICIPANT 1with some of these SYSTEMS it could be iterative. So you might have more work to do. And I think that's where documenting.
PARTICIPANT 1you know the the lessons learned. But then also your your action items post deployment as critical and you know, recognizing that that that commitment's important. Even if
PARTICIPANT 1a SYSTEM
PARTICIPANT 1cannot do 10% of of what you wanted. That that's okay. You know, just as PEOPLE are not perfect. SYSTEMS are not either.
PARTICIPANT 1And
PARTICIPANT 1you know, recognizing you might have to iterate a little bit. But if you can get past that. You know, hump of.
PARTICIPANT 1You know your initial deployment and stuff. II think that becomes easier.
PARTICIPANT 1I think, especially as the PROJECT winds down. And PEOPLE, you know, it becomes a way
PARTICIPANT 1of doing business day to day.
Unice Harris: Perfect. Thank you.  Last question.
Unice Harris: can you share
Unice Harris: why you think that CHANGE. MAANAGEMENT is important or not important, and CHANGE MAANAGEMENT is incorporate is what incorporates your your TRAINING, your TESTING, your corporate-wide COMMUNICATION. All those things are CHANGE MAANAGEMENT. Can you tell me why you think those are important? Or if you think those are not important?
PARTICIPANT 1Well. I mean, if I found some one that said was not important. II don't know if they'd be in business for long.
PARTICIPANT 1
PARTICIPANT 1you know. II think
PARTICIPANT 1If you look throughout history.
PARTICIPANT 1you know, I think CHANGE has always been an issue. And and I think what makes it unique today is the pace is a lot faster than it was in the past.
PARTICIPANT 1you know, if you look at the past century in the Us.
PARTICIPANT 1There have been huge advances for you know women and equality in the workplace.
PARTICIPANT 1you know. Like, I, I'm
PARTICIPANT 1we're not using a telegraph anymore. We're not, you know, SYSTEMS are getting phased out much faster.
PARTICIPANT 1So I think there's a recognition that ORGANIZATIONs need to be more agile and adaptive compared to the past.
PARTICIPANT 1I think PEOPLE do, too. Even if you look at
PARTICIPANT 1the careers that folks have, you know there was this old adage, you work at one place for 30 years. Retire, you know you get a pension. That's gone
PARTICIPANT 1for folks my age. They grew up being told they work at 15 or more different places.
PARTICIPANT 1 So so I think it'd be very naive to  to not have some level of of CHANGE MAANAGEMENT expertise
PARTICIPANT 1and I think the other part, too, is the you know, when you look at PROJECTs. So you've got, you know, the PEOPLE aspect PROCESS and TECHNOLOGY.
PARTICIPANT 1And I think sometimes the the PEOPLE part can be forgotten.
PARTICIPANT 1Cause. When you're working on stuff, you might have really technical PEOPLE
PARTICIPANT 1that are good with the TECHNOLOGY or their expertise. But they're not good at communicating with PEOPLE. So finding folks that can be. That bridge between the 2 is critical.
PARTICIPANT 1 I've even heard within the next decade. So just as there's more PROJECT managers than there were in the past. There might even be.
PARTICIPANT 1CHANGE, managers that all they do is figure out, you know. How do we get to that current state, to the future state.
PARTICIPANT 1And I think in some ways PROJECT managers already do that. They're just not formally call CHANGE managers. But
PARTICIPANT 1 I definitely think that
PARTICIPANT 1that a working knowledge of CHANGE MAANAGEMENT.
PARTICIPANT 1you know, it's critical. And II even remember studying PROJECT MAANAGEMENT. II saw a statistic that
PARTICIPANT 1 I think this was from like the late 90 s. The 80% of
PARTICIPANT 1of initiatives that aren't managed while failed.
PARTICIPANT 1And I saw something from an AI article that came out. I think it was last year.
PARTICIPANT 1It said that two-thirds of all PROJECTs fail every year. So imagine spending. you know.
PARTICIPANT 1tens of billions of dollars across your economy every year on, on failed initiatives.
PARTICIPANT 1 you know that's terrible. That money could go somewhere else, and I think that's where
PARTICIPANT 1you know managing stuff very intentionally.
PARTICIPANT 1You know this idea of going, you know, going slow and then going fast.
PARTICIPANT 1Being agile. I think that's gonna be critical
PARTICIPANT 1today. But then also, as we move into industry, 5 and beyond
Unice Harris: great answer.
Unice Harris: great, great, great great answer. No, that's a great, great, great answer.
Unice Harris: So listen. I want to thank you for taking the time today and answering these 9 questions. you have a vast amount of experience, and it's going to go a long ways in terms of adding to the body of knowledge. And it's going to be
Unice Harris: invaluable for this study. So let me take a moment in this conversation. Turn off the recording hang on 1 s.
PARTICIPANT 2 TRANSCRIPTS
WEBVTT
Unice Harris: Okay, I'm about to go on my MEETING.
Unice Harris: You're right now.
Unice Harris: Scripture.
Unice Harris: Message 4, 8, 1, 6, 8, 0.
Unice Harris: How many?
Good afternoon. Can you hear me?
Unice Harris: I think you're on mute. That's not
Unice Harris: Hi. Yes, I'm here. I can hear you. Can you hear me? Yes, I can hear you. Thank you so much for participating. I greatly appreciate it.
PARTICIPANT 2 Not a problem. Are we doing this on camera or off camera? We'll do it off camera. And if you click, please. Send your
Unice Harris: form consent, form back to me.
PARTICIPANT 2 Should I just EMAIL it back? Okay.
Unice Harris: you can EMAIL it back. And we just send it through Linkedin, which is convenient for you. That way, I
Unice Harris: and the informed consent just basically said that you consent to participating in the study, and that nobody forced you, and you understand that you cannot participate. And then it talks to you about the privacy, and how I will keep your INFORMATION completely confidential.
PARTICIPANT 2 Yes, I will send it back. I just need to find
PARTICIPANT 2 it. But III completed it, but that was one of the questions I was gonna ask you if E, if EMAILing it back would be fine.
Unice Harris: Yep, that's just fine. So I will. I will go ahead and get started. Thank you so much again for participating. Your experience is invaluable to the study, and it's a blessing to just get your perspective of some of the things that are going on within the DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION space. So I'll just go ahead and start with number one, and we have 9 questions that that will just work through
Unice Harris: during the initiation, or any other phase or start of the PROJECT. Can you share a time when you communicated the PURPOSE of the TRANSFORMATION PROJECT to the ORGANIZATION, and how it would enhance or help the ORGANIZATION.
PARTICIPANT 2 Sure, I will go back to 2020. I work for public sector.
PARTICIPANT 2 local government. And in 2020, when we were faced with the global pandemic one of the PROCESSES in which
PARTICIPANT 2 vendors would submit their invoices to the city was very, very heavy paper based.
PARTICIPANT 2 and the push to
PARTICIPANT 2 have electronic submissions was put on the table for discussion and consideration
PARTICIPANT 2 because one because we were all under stay at home, orders that also meant that Staff was not able to be in office to receive review and PROCESS invoices to vendors who obviously would need to be paid for services that they've provided to the city. So that was the my first
PARTICIPANT 2 biggest DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION PROJECT is
PARTICIPANT 2 moving ahead with the design, development and implementation of an enterprise wide initiative to move the city from. And I laugh because it's, you know, it's
PARTICIPANT 2 really behind times a paper based PROCESS to a more DIGITAL PROCESS
PARTICIPANT 2 and and basic DIGITAL meaning just rather than have someone print 3 copies of invoices, mail that in or
PARTICIPANT 2 deliver that in person. Now we're just gonna ask them to EMAIL it through the centralized delivery SYSTEM where they can upload their invoices and the SUPPORT and documents, and the SYSTEM will then push that out to the respective DEPARTMENTs.
Unice Harris: And you, did you communicate that the PURPOSE? Or did did someone on the TEAM communicate the PURPOSE of that PROJECT at the very start to everybody within the ORGANIZATION, or did they just communicate it to specific PEOPLE?
PARTICIPANT 2 No, I manage the COMMUNICATION between myself, the PROJECT sponsor There were a number of
PARTICIPANT 2 DEPARTMENTs that were high priority core members. So conversation first happened within. Let's say that stratosphere and then commuting heavy COMMUNICATION out to DEPARTMENTs. DEPARTMENT leadership first, so that we have
PARTICIPANT 2 BUYIN from them, and understanding from leadership of their respective DEPARTMENTs. And this is the direction that we're going. Also communicates in very heavily to fiscal staff
PARTICIPANT 2  to inform them that this is what the NEW PROCESS will be moving forward getting them up to speed trained familiar with the portal that was being designed and developed.
PARTICIPANT 2 And also COMMUNICATION to our vendor community, informing them that this would be the NEW PROCESS by a certain date. How the city would like to receive invoices. You know, for
PARTICIPANT 2 at that time the the urgency behind
PARTICIPANT 2 moving to a more electronic PROCESS, because, you know, offices are not staffed, we're under stay at home order. And then eventually, as the reactions and feedback came in about this NEW PROCESS and the challenges and the the push back
PARTICIPANT 2 just navigating everyone from leadership of different DEPARTMENTs, fiscal staff vendors, even some of our STAKEHOLDERS,
PARTICIPANT 2 who had certain expectations having to navigate having to navigate COMMUNICATION with them to ensure that there was alignment at all stages of the PROJECT.
Unice Harris: That's good INFORMATION? And then how did you communicate? That was that through EMAIL, through a shared site, through MEETINGS? Or was it a combination of all of that.
PARTICIPANT 2 It was a combination of all of that we were MEETING in person up until we were not able to be in the office together. Then we heavily relied on TECHNOLOGY. Beyond just EMAILing
PARTICIPANT 2 TEAMS. My, utilize in Microsoft TEAMS was very, very, very critical in our daily COMMUNICATION. Not just MEETINGS for for broad general MEETINGS, but for TEAM huddles and MEETING with different PROJECT TEAMS who had different work streams within the PROCESS.
PARTICIPANT 2 That instant messaging was very, very needed cause. As things were developing and changing and features were being built, decisions had to be made very, very quickly. So
PARTICIPANT 2 we pivoted from in person MEETINGS to heavy use of Ms TEAMS Sharepoint site for document MAANAGEMENT and EMAILing for exCHANGE. More
PARTICIPANT 2 more long form of COMMUNICATION.
Unice Harris: And that's good INFORMATION. Thank you for sharing that. Do you feel like by doing all of that? Do you get? Did you feel like it minimized confusion about the PURPOSE of the PROJECT.
PARTICIPANT 2 I don't know if it minimize confusion. What I felt it did was it was over COMMUNICATION which was needed. Because at that time given what we were all dealing with, not just professionally, but in our personal life and just
PARTICIPANT 2 being in, in, in in the throes of the pandemic INFORMATION sharing was very critical. PEOPLE needed to know
PARTICIPANT 2 and be reminded, why are we doing this? How is this gonna help. Why are we? You know why now?
PARTICIPANT 2  questioning. And you know, we gave space for them to question, and I definitely had to feel a lot of the answers like, why, now, why this particular tool? What are some of the features?
PARTICIPANT 2 I've been in this role for 15 years or 40 years, and we've never done it this way. So we had to over communicate, reiterate constantly. And
PARTICIPANT 2 II can't say and minimize confusion, but it really gave assurance that
PARTICIPANT 2 such a big and bold move was being managed, and that there was a face or a person behind it that they can connect with and meaning Staff City staff from any level, as well as vendors who were reaching out because they were hearing that this is happening, and they were concerned on how they would get paid. So COMMUNICATION helped with, I would say, assurance
PARTICIPANT 2 more than confusion. Okay.
Unice Harris: I like that INFORMATION. Thank you for sharing it. Can you share a time when you didn't communicate the PURPOSE of
Unice Harris: the TRANSFORMATION, and how that PROJECT was a little bit different, because in your
Unice Harris: in your the assessment that you just shared with me. Everybody was pulled together, and everybody kNEW at every stage of the PROJECT what things were going to be, and there was a lot of assurance there that, you know, if they had any questions they kNEW where to go. They kNEW what the PURPOSE, of what the of the PROJECT was. And that makes it easier to facilitate a completion. So can you tell me a time where you didn't do all of those things.
PARTICIPANT 2 Yes, there was another DIGITALly TRANSFORMative initiative where the COMMUNICATION was not as broad
PARTICIPANT 2 to to the enterprise. It was very specific to the core DEPARTMENTs that were involved. However.
PARTICIPANT 2 the
PARTICIPANT 2 conversations around design and implementation. In fact, there. There was a lot of gaps
PARTICIPANT 2 in that, and with on that particular PROJECT. There was a lot of confusion. There was wasn't wasn't as SUCCESSFUL with BUYIN.
PARTICIPANT 2 Because
PARTICIPANT 2 how we were. The approach we took was, we're sort of build it. and then they'll come type of approach rather than
PARTICIPANT 2 get input and BUYIN earlier on. So with taking that approach, COMMUNICATION was limited. It was obvious where there were INFORMATION gaps, but it was also by design that that that PROJECT was
PARTICIPANT 2 structures like that.
Unice Harris: Perfect. Thank you. And I think you already answered question, too. But just in case you want to add a little bit more to it, question was during the requirements or any other phase of the TRANSFORMATION. Did you share
Unice Harris: how you inform the cross functional TEAMS or the ORGANIZATION up as a whole, of how the TRANSFORMATION would impact them specifically, and how it would affect or impact or enhance
Unice Harris: how they do their work every day. And I think you answered that with the the PROJECT where you're moving them from heavy paper to electronic based transmission. You said that you guys took the extra steps to, you know, inform. You know the stake not only the STAKEHOLDERS, but the ORGANIZATION as a whole. And the cross impact
TEAMS. Want to elaborate on that. Any further, you will make kind of take what you've already said in question. Number one.
PARTICIPANT 2 Well, II let me see if I can give some more detail around that. So EMAILing
PARTICIPANT 2 the detailed
PARTICIPANT 2 structure and roadmap, so to speak, on how we were gonna go about this initiative. In addition to that we also facilitated
PARTICIPANT 2 MEETINGS where it was. Our our audience was very targeted. It would be identifying fiscal staff
PARTICIPANT 2 or finance staff within the enterprise to take their questions. As well as so we're when I say, take their questions. So if we have fiscal staff, we have
PARTICIPANT 2 members of the fiscal staff who are primarily responsible for just receiving and acknowledging or creating a receipt of the invoice. So they would have specific questions. So we met with that target group. Then we met with the accounting
PARTICIPANT 2 Or the accountants throughout the city. They're the ones that or the as well as the contract managers, so they would have very specific questions as a contract manager
PARTICIPANT 2 need in specific pieces of INFORMATION for their portions of the work. How how would we ensure that they got their pieces or how do we ensure that fraud is not happening? So we also identified specific expertise within the enterprise and have very specific
PARTICIPANT 2 targeted MEETINGS to answer their questions, to help inform, clarify, guide. seek, BUYIN on what we were doing.
Unice Harris: Got it? Okay? Thank you very much. And I think you just kind of you're leading into the next question,
Unice Harris: in the design phase, or any other phase
Unice Harris: before development of the TRANSFORMATION life cycle? Can you share how you provided TRAINING relative to the NEW PROCESS or NEW TECHNOLOGY? How you provided you know them with with TRAINING on how to use the NEW TECHNOLOGY.
PARTICIPANT 2 What with the utilizing the NEW TECHNOLOGY, and that piece of TECHNOLOGY was a portal I facilitated. Sorry numerous demos. So I was trained by the developers on the back end of how to use the SYSTEM
PARTICIPANT 2 both from a user perspective meaning the vendor as well as a internal city staff personnel.
PARTICIPANT 2 So I was trained by developers. On that. Then I constructed and facilitated demos for fiscal staff contract managers lead a different leadership throughout the city on what the user experience would be like and what the back end experience for their fiscal staff would be like.
okay?
Unice Harris: And then on the flip side of that. It makes it easier when they know what they know how to use the SYSTEMS.
Unice Harris: And you know, you, you implement it kind of like the train, the trainer type scenario where again the developers train do. And you took that knowledge and trained everybody who would be impacted by the SYSTEM. Can you share a time when you didn't provide any TRAINING at all? And how did that work out.
PARTICIPANT 2 Yeah, based on how? That
PARTICIPANT 2 the nature of of that particular PROJECT where there were DEPARTMENTs that did not BUYINto it, and as a result missed opportunity to train them because
PARTICIPANT 2 they were not sold on this particular tool. They still wanted the PROCESS, the old PROCESS. So as a result of that
PARTICIPANT 2 some TEAMS and within the first year that did not BUYINto it, they.
PARTICIPANT 2 they, as well as ourselves, would have issues with vendors because there's COMMUNICATION out there, and their vendors are. Some of them are confused on whether they should send the INFORMATION via the portal, or they should send it in the traditional way, and because of that it really
PARTICIPANT 2 muddied the waters when we did not have complete BUYIN
PARTICIPANT 2 from those DEPARTMENTs, and then we would see a year and a half later, 2 years later, some of these very DEPARTMENTs that I had reached out to some of them are reaching out to ask for TRAINING, because
PARTICIPANT 2 ex person who was responsible before never informed fiscal staff that
PARTICIPANT 2 there was this
PARTICIPANT 2 TECHNOLOGY that they can use or X person left, and now they're in charge, and they want to understand. So
PARTICIPANT 2 I would say, because some DEPARTMENTs did not completely buy. And they it created a
PARTICIPANT 2 INFORMATION vacuum for that respective DEPARTMENT, and as a result it created confusion for vendors as well as
PARTICIPANT 2 narratives on
PARTICIPANT 2 the utility of this piece of TECHNOLOGY, good, bad, or indifferent other narratives were created and passed, so it did create some confusion for those who are not
PARTICIPANT 2 engaged in any TRAINING of any kind.
Unice Harris: So when for those that engage in the TRAINING, and we're able to get onto the SYSTEM and use it the way it was intended to be? Did that create an easier PROCESS? Flow? For executing those transactions electronically versus in paper? And did it somehow increase REVENUEover a over a period of time
PARTICIPANT 2 there, that that is a mixed response. I have for some DEPARTMENTs who did utilize the the TECHNOLOGY, the portal.
PARTICIPANT 2 For some of them it challenged. What the internal PROCESS is.
Unice Harris: if that if they were accustomed to getting invoices mailed in.
PARTICIPANT 2 if they were, if they have 2 staff members, for example, if they have 2 staff members that receive physical invoices, they, you know, have staff members who are under utilize because invoices are coming in electronically as a result of an example like that. It then challenge
PARTICIPANT 2 each respective DEPARTMENT to think about what the internal PROCESSES with the implementation of the tool we never dictated how a DEPARTMENT needs to PROCESS invoices so, and that was intentional.
PARTICIPANT 2 But for some DEPARTMENTs that challenge was either a good thing or not a good thing, a good thing in the sense that they accepted.
PARTICIPANT 2 They accepted the CHANGES that are required, and how they PROCESS and made CHANGES, whether it's through their policy and their practice, and how they're going to review and approve invoices electronically
PARTICIPANT 2 or for some of them, it was really Re and still isn't. 3 years later. For some of them it's still very difficult for them to make that complete pivot, and they still utilize the old way of
PARTICIPANT 2 of getting invoices
PARTICIPANT 2 other part. To your question you were asking about revenue. Well, in public sector, our bottom line is never really revenue.
PARTICIPANT 2 Our bottom line tends to be more impact
PARTICIPANT 2 and in some cases there were significant impact
PARTICIPANT 2 on productivity, so invoices were being PROCESSed at a faster rate
PARTICIPANT 2 within a certain amount of time. So within the second year the data shows that within the second year of the portal being stood up, 70% of invoices received via the portal will PROCESS, and under 30 days
Unice Harris: oh, as opposed to
PARTICIPANT 2 prior to the portal, invoices were not being paid
PARTICIPANT 2 in some extreme cases for 6 months or 90 days or 60 days.
PARTICIPANT 2 but through the the standing up of the Porto and invoices being submitted through that piece of TECHNOLOGY, we were able to
PARTICIPANT 2 track and determine that within the second, here we saw a an increase in in productivity, in how fast
PARTICIPANT 2 invoices were being reviewed and PROCESSed. Electronic.
Unice Harris: Okay, Gotcha perfect.
Unice Harris: so not necessarily
Unice Harris: increase revenue, but increase the efficiency that your REVENUEwas paid
Unice Harris: per se. That would be an accurate okay.
Unice Harris: which is still good.
Unice Harris: which is still good, because if you think about you're getting paid your revenue
70%
Unice Harris: more effectively in the second year versus waiting 6 months to get your revenue. Now you're getting it within 30, 60, 90 days because you're getting
Unice Harris: because your invoices are electronic and not paper correct. I got it. That's perfect. Oh, my gosh! You need to be everywhere in this city, cause they still are. There are a lot of locations that are still heavy ladies on paper invoices.
Unice Harris: Question number 4 in the TESTING phase of the DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION lifecycle. Can you share how you tested the NEW TECHNOLOGY or PROCESS? Maybe a user acceptance test to confirm that it works the way it should before go live or tell me how you test it? Or did you test at all. Yeah, we did a user acceptance test before we went live.
And that that was myself.
PARTICIPANT 2  in in the role of a user as well as a few city staff to
PARTICIPANT 2  to provide feedback on what the
PARTICIPANT 2 user experience was.
Unice Harris: Okay.
Unice Harris: hey?
Unice Harris: Okay, and then can you share a time where you did not do any TESTING at all. Was that a different, a very, very different outcome when you didn't use any test?
PARTICIPANT 2 No, we. We have always used some user TESTING. at least on the PROJECTs that I've been on. Yes.
Unice Harris: good. Good. Good.
Unice Harris: Okay.
Unice Harris: Question. Number 5 after the rollout into production. How are end users, employees, and STAKEHOLDERS allowed to offer feedback relative to what worked in production and what seemed to not work smoothly?
PARTICIPANT 2 I would say we didn't do a good job in that space.
PARTICIPANT 2 the we we sort of left the feedback loop to come in through EMAILS like, you know if you have any questions or concerns, you can EMAIL
PARTICIPANT 2 this
PARTICIPANT 2 EMAIL address. So we did that.
PARTICIPANT 2 maybe one other timing about 6 months after the TECHNOLOGY was stood up. I did a SURVEY
PARTICIPANT 2  but there wasn't
PARTICIPANT 2 a well structured or designed to
PARTICIPANT 2 capture ongoing feedback on concerns.
PARTICIPANT 2  if a DEPARTMENT had an issue, it could be a one off issue. They would then reach out individually and say, XY, and Z is the case, and then we'll try to
PARTICIPANT 2 remediate what the the issue is. Got it? Okay?
Unice Harris: So when they roll this out into production and didn't provide a way for them to communicate.
Their experiences.
Unice Harris: Let's roll forward to maybe the next PROJECT. Do you feel like how that particular PROJECT was managed?
Unice Harris: Did impacted members of the ORGANIZATION seem more receptive to CHANGE or more hesitant to CHANGE.
PARTICIPANT 2 that that, too, is a mixed bag. because there are some folks who are
PARTICIPANT 2 who are actually vested in citizen technologies. CHANGES with technologies to not be SUCCESSFUL. So it's also like, I told you so.
PARTICIPANT 2 So. We have those players. And then we also have the the players who
PARTICIPANT 2 are vested in wanting data to be SUCCESS
PARTICIPANT 2  in these TRANSFORMative PROJECTs and they are open to given suggestions.
PARTICIPANT 2 Providing feedback in a in A very, with.
PARTICIPANT 2 you know, very constructive feedback that is useful.
PARTICIPANT 2 And then for myself, as a PROJECT manager, having seen what worked, what didn't work, what we could do, a better job, and just making note of those lessons learned, so that
PARTICIPANT 2 I take that with me on future PROJECTs. And then
PARTICIPANT 2 and then could speak to
PARTICIPANT 2 conversation around other TRANSFORMative PROJECTs, things that we need to think of much earlier on.
Unice Harris: Okay. perfect. Okay, that makes perfect sense.
Question. Number 6,
Unice Harris: can you share an example of a DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION that went very well. And you've already done that. You shared that
the transition from paper to electronic.
Unice Harris: And I like that. That was really precise. The way you did that. And you elaborated off some of those PEOPLE who wanted to kind of lag behind and not pick up the NEW TECHNOLOGY. So they were requesting TRAINING. A year or 2 years after you guys were already done. So you kind of elaborated on that a little bit. Also.
Unice Harris: you talked a little bit about a product that didn't go so well. So I think you've covered that question. 6. Do you want to elaborate any further on that?
Yeah, I can.
PARTICIPANT 2 with that that particular PROJECT.
PARTICIPANT 2 I'll give you a a little more context. So, for example.
PARTICIPANT 2 the
PARTICIPANT 2 residents of the city, if they wanted to apply for a specific BENEFIT, as it is right now to day.
PARTICIPANT 2 If they wanted assistance with taxes.
PARTICIPANT 2 Some type of tax relief if they wanted assistance with home repair or their water bill.
PARTICIPANT 2 So we're talking about tax relief. That's the DEPARTMENT of Revenue
PARTICIPANT 2 Water Bill, that is, with the Water REVENUEhome repair. That's with planning and development. They would have to go to each specific DEPARTMENT
PARTICIPANT 2 to get INFORMATION, either from their website or speak to someone on staff
PARTICIPANT 2 or in Poussin.
PARTICIPANT 2 There's no centralized way where myself, as a resident, if I have a need in each specific area
PARTICIPANT 2 that I could go on line. submit an application, or submit an inquiry and get INFORMATION on my eligibility for these 3 things. Okay, Gotcha.
PARTICIPANT 2 And we were trying to develop a tool, a common application tool that would allow a resident who has some proficiency with TECHNOLOGY to
PARTICIPANT 2 access this common application either on their mobile phone or on their desktop.
PARTICIPANT 2 and put in specific personal INFORMATION. For example, understanding their income number of persons in their household, if they
PARTICIPANT 2 are if they have some form of disability as part of eligibility.
PARTICIPANT 2 Questioning to determine. Okay, although you may have a need, a housing issue based off of all of the INFORMATION that you've provided, we also see that you are eligible for some medical program, and that's based on the person's personal INFORMATION.
PARTICIPANT 2 So that tool with it being an eligibility screener, the BENEFIT is allowing this person to enter in their INFORMATION and not only find out INFORMATION about the program they made.
PARTICIPANT 2 Think they're interested in or are interested in. But hey, here are some of the services that the city could provide you as well.
PARTICIPANT 2 and that proved to be that PROJECT proved to be difficult to get off the ground. Because one. I think everyone defined
PARTICIPANT 2  the problem and the challenge differently. We did not have a uniform definition of what the problem is, we, I think we had more of a a solution driven
PARTICIPANT 2 approach than clearly understanding what the problem is and how this common application was really going to answer the or be the solution to the problem. That we
PARTICIPANT 2 did not, you know, uniformly agree upon. So
PARTICIPANT 2 coming to the table with the Dev TEAM was really challenging, because in one light were communicated, were going in the direction of right. But then you had other DEPARTMENTs
PARTICIPANT 2 who were
PARTICIPANT 2 engage in with outside vendors or tools that they think may help them in the short run for the very thing that we were working with the developers on to build
PARTICIPANT 2 in-house.
Unice Harris: Okay.
PARTICIPANT 2 And were they doing this at the same time? They were doing it at the same time? Oh, my gosh! And despite having
PARTICIPANT 2 bi weekly MEETINGS with set agendas.
PARTICIPANT 2 and then, you know, a a MEETING forum that allowed for you know what are some updates? What is the? And that was the other big piece to data sharing was very challenging. Some folks did not want to
PARTICIPANT 2 divulge the adido or do any data sharing, because it also puts them in a position. For example, if they are being funded by
you know the city and from different
PARTICIPANT 2 tax
PARTICIPANT 2 pay his dollars essentially. And there's a under utilization of the program. It then exposes them to the how and the why and the what or the how come, you know we're PROJECTing that
PARTICIPANT 2 this particular service is, should help 4,000 Philadelphians. So why is it only that 1,200
PARTICIPANT 2 Philadelphians have accessed your
PARTICIPANT 2 service?
PARTICIPANT 2 So data sharing was very, very challenging
PARTICIPANT 2 And and because of that transparency was impacted. And you know, as we're going along, we're learning. And we're seeing like, oh, this DEPARTMENT has launched this
PARTICIPANT 2 eligibility screening tool. But aren't we building that for them? So it was. It still proved to be very, very, very messy and unSUCCESSFUL, and
PARTICIPANT 2 maybe a year, maybe 2 years into it we we pull the plug temporarily. There just wasn't alignment and transparency on
PARTICIPANT 2  what the problem is, and how this tool
PARTICIPANT 2 is supposed to
PARTICIPANT 2 bring them resolution or SUPPORT to Philadelphians, so that that that also leads into the next question, because you have so many moving pieces, and so many PEOPLE moving in different directions.
Unice Harris: Because they were not willing to CHANGE what they were already doing, or they felt like they had a better way to do it. Can you share anything that you were able to do in that situation, or another situation that would create a more DIGITAL innovation mindset within the ORGANIZATION.
PARTICIPANT 2 Sure. So after we pull the plug on that first iteration of it, we have since
PARTICIPANT 2 had one. My DEPARTMENT. We are now owning the PROJECT part of the charges that we did not own the PROJECT. We were just providing the PROJECT MAANAGEMENT capacity to move the PROJECT.
PARTICIPANT 2 and by now taking ownership of the PROJECT, we get to define what the problem is. But before we define what the problem is, we conducted our own research. We employed the assistance of
PARTICIPANT 2 service design researchers
Unice Harris: some of them with a data science background, psychology background. So we employed that type of expertise to help us conduct research
PARTICIPANT 2 on the BENEFITS access landscape of the city.
Unice Harris: So who are the DEPARTMENTs? Who are the staff? What are the programs? How long these programs been in existence? Who's funding the program? What is their data saying?
PARTICIPANT 2 And
PARTICIPANT 2 we're able. We've since been able to get a better idea of the landscape of
PARTICIPANT 2 city BENEFITS.
PARTICIPANT 2 That the city offers who the players are. We have convened
PARTICIPANT 2 our
PARTICIPANT 2  selected and convened our PROJECT STAKEHOLDERS, so because we now own it, we get to invite and and and think really critically on the expertise that we need at the table
PARTICIPANT 2 in this space in various capacities. So we've had folks who are in the DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION space from the policy side, from the education side, we have data sciences. We have
PARTICIPANT 2 diversity and inclusion specialists on the TEAM. those who the expertise for folks who are like community development practitioners,
PARTICIPANT 2 folks from the office of for PEOPLE with disabilities.
PARTICIPANT 2 Umhm as well. And
PARTICIPANT 2 and of course, program MAANAGEMENT me. Me? So right now we have a nice blend of expertise at the table to
PARTICIPANT 2 help guide and inform us on the development of of the tool moving forward. And then.
Unice Harris: So I think what I'm understanding you to say is that by employing the expertise
Unice Harris: in research that you needed upfront to determine the true BENEFITS. And having the right PEOPLE at the table early in the PROCESS helped to ascertain the true value, and that subsequently helped to create a more DIGITAL mindset.
Unice Harris: Is that, did I get that right?
Unice Harris: Okay.
Unice Harris: perfect. I think you answered this one, too. Number 8, after roll out into production? How did the TRANSFORMATION give you or the employees and STAKEHOLDERS the results that were expected. So I think in the
Unice Harris: move to
Unice Harris: from paper to electronic, you said there was a 70% increase in PROCESSing
Unice Harris: invoices. And that's really, really good. That's definitely getting what you set out to get.
Unice Harris: Do you want to further elaborate on that?
PARTICIPANT 2  no, not till II mean, we're doing well. We're doing steady right now because we are
PARTICIPANT 2 heading into year 3, or maybe year 4 of it of implementation. We're looking at other metrics
PARTICIPANT 2 that we can track. One of the metrics that is very important is understanding the utilization from minority, own businesses, minority women own disabled own business enterprises. Are they using
PARTICIPANT 2 the portal? And that's important to the city overall because it
PARTICIPANT 2 it helps us to
PARTICIPANT 2 understand or helps our leadership to understand. Our minority. Women own businesses getting contracts with the city.
PARTICIPANT 2 The their u utilization of the portal, you know, informs us of the number of women owned businesses, those or minority owned businesses or disabled own businesses. So it's giving. It's helping us to drill down a bit more on the metrics that we want to capture.
Unice Harris: Okay, wonderful
and
Unice Harris: question number 9. And the last question, can you share why you think CHANGE MAANAGEMENT is important or is not important to DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION. And when I speak of CHANGE MAANAGEMENT, that is what I
Unice Harris: refer to as TRAINING, early BUYIN all those types of things is what I identify as being CHANGE MAANAGEMENT, you know, creating that awareness? All of those types of things can you share? Why you feel like that's important, or why you feel like it's not important.
PARTICIPANT 2 Sure. I would say in public sector.
PARTICIPANT 2 it is critical for us to have CHANGE MAANAGEMENT.
PARTICIPANT 2 From my experiences on both
PARTICIPANT 2 DIGITAL TRANSFORMative PROJECTs. I have seen an experience where.
PARTICIPANT 2 when there is no buy, in what
PARTICIPANT 2 obstacles are created. When you know, trying to design and develop a product
PARTICIPANT 2 as well as I've seen where, when there is BUYIN, you have your CHAMPIONs, you have your advocates. You have that built in SUPPORT.
PARTICIPANT 2  But I would say that, particularly in public sector, it's very critical to have that CHANGE MAANAGEMENT piece because
PARTICIPANT 2 it does impact the employees who are the ones that are really driving.
PARTICIPANT 2 You know, our programs and services and getting their input there has been a culture where they're almost like the last to know. They're just told that this is what you're going to do, and I think that is a huge, huge misstep.
PARTICIPANT 2 It would be to our advantage to to move into
PARTICIPANT 2 a more PEOPLE, centered or human centered
PARTICIPANT 2 world it within the city, to
PARTICIPANT 2 to take into consideration, not just the end user, but in some cases our end user or one of our users are employees. So if you're gonna implement any type of NEW TECHNOLOGY. You need employees to need that needs to be trained or up skilled. Or you need to explain to employees why this particular PROCESS is beneficial, or in some cases understand why they
PARTICIPANT 2 follow a particular workflow. The way that they do. Is there an inefficiency, or is that a workaround? Because there is some type of bottleneck somewhere, and they've just created their own workaround. So we need to have CHANGE MAANAGEMENT because it's very complex. It's a complex thing behind the scenes in providing a service.
PARTICIPANT 2 or or let me walk that back. particularly when we are
PARTICIPANT 2 our line of business is about service delivery. So there's a lot of things behind the scenes, and CHANGE MAANAGEMENT is critical to the SUCCESS and MAANAGEMENT and running of any service that the that is being provided to the public.
PARTICIPANT 2 It's not just the end user. It's not just the public value created from, you know, giving someone tax relief or giving someone a service of some kind. But the the staff that have to work within antiquated SYSTEMS. How can we
PARTICIPANT 2  upskill staff that needs to be upskilled? How can we bring them along
PARTICIPANT 2 in the PROCESS rather than just have a culture of this is what we're going to do. Or you train a select few and not really get BUYIN from them.
Unice Harris: Perfect. great. So this has been tremendously beneficial. You have a wealth of experience and just again. Invaluable to you know, getting your perspective on, you know, CHANGE MAANAGEMENT and DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION. And I am looking forward to incorporating your input into the study. Once I
Unice Harris: get the transcripts and
Unice Harris: format everything, I will send you over a copy. If you want to respond within 3 days you can respond with any CHANGES you want to add, or if I've missed interpreted anything, if you don't want to CHANGE anything, you certainly don't have to respond, and I will move forward with the study. Thank you again. I am so honored to have you participate in my study, and I greatly appreciate your taking the time.
PARTICIPANT 2 I will again be in touch within the next few days or so. Give you a copy, and you let me know if you want a copy of the In study, so
PARTICIPANT 2 I'm going to send you your signed
PARTICIPANT 2 copy of of the consent form.
Unice Harris: Perfect. Thank you very much. I appreciate your taking the time, and I love what it is that you're doing. With your ORGANIZATION. I cannot wait to expose other PEOPLE to what you're doing. So let's stay connected on Linkedin, and be able to work together again, and some other capacity. I would love that. Thank you so much. This was really.
PARTICIPANT 2 really excited. I haven't done something like this before, and to be able to speak
PARTICIPANT 2 on it in the space of DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION when I think I'm really green behind the ears. So II appreciate
PARTICIPANT 2 the opportunity to to hear these, to get these questions and answer these questions, to to just help me think like, Wow, no, you you do have something behind you with that, and absolutely you do. Thank you again. I will give you back some time in your day, and thank you again. Have a wonderful weekend. You do the same. Thank you, and take care all the best.
PARTICIPANT 2 Bye-bye.
PARTICIPANT 3 TRANSCRIPTS
PARTICIPANT 3Hello! Yes. How are you?
PARTICIPANT 3Hello! Good! How are you? I'm good. So I'm late.
PARTICIPANT 3I'm I'm used to TEAMS and not zoom
Unice Harris: no problem at all. Thank you for joining. I was just checking your messages to see if you had left me a message of another time.
PARTICIPANT 3No, no, I'm good. I'm good for today.
Unice Harris: So everything worked out yesterday, yeah, we have hot water. So everything is great
Unice Harris: the wife is happy. So I'm happy, right. Good, good, good. Well, let me. I'll go ahead and jump into the questions, and then I will turn the recording off, and we can catch up, because, man, I know. You have some amazing stories, and I know that your family's thriving. Has your garden graduated Harvard yet.
Unice Harris: Yeah, she's graduated, and she's living in Dublin, Ireland. So
PARTICIPANT 3yeah.
PARTICIPANT 3she's long g10, my gosh, that is amazing! Oh, my goodness, that's amazing! We can catch up. We can catch up after the call.
PARTICIPANT 3Oh, it's about that. About 1010 years, I would think, what is it? 2,000? Yeah, it's been a long time. It's been a while
Unice Harris: joining, and I know your schedule is busy, so I'll dive right in. This is the PURPOSE. Study again is to understand a little bit more about DIGITAL TRANSFORMATIONs and how CHANGE MAANAGEMENT can help to impact the the TRANSFORMATION and help to increase revenue. So I'll dive right into question number one,
Unice Harris: or other phase or start of the PROJECT. Can you share time when you communicated the PURPOSE of the DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION PROJECT to the ORGANIZATION, and how it would enhance or help
Unice Harris: the ORGANIZATION. So just a time where, when you started the TRANSFORMATION, you were able to communicate the PURPOSE of the PROJECT and how it would help the ORGANIZATION.
PARTICIPANT 3Okay,
PARTICIPANT 3okay, I could think of a I'm thinking of one of the the deals that I've worked on
PARTICIPANT 3well, usually, before I communicate what the the PURPOSE of the TRANSFORMATION is.
PARTICIPANT 3I have to sit down with the STAKEHOLDERS. I have like this pre COMMUNICATION MEETING to set it up so that it's not the first time hearing the PURPOSE of what's what's about to happen.
PARTICIPANT 3And so I walk through a II get with the sponsor. I usually I'll sit with the sponsor and find out. You know who are the different STAKEHOLDERS that are impacted by the TRANSFORMATION.
PARTICIPANT 3And then I once I identify who they are. I
II
PARTICIPANT 3talk to each one of them. So II kind of shop the the whole idea of the TRANSFORMATION around to each of the STAKEHOLDERS.
PARTICIPANT 3And before I shop it around to them. I try to identify, you know. who are the ones who are the decision makers?
PARTICIPANT 3Who's the CHAMPIONs of what's about to happen. You know, who are the derailers who who's against it? Because usually you have different types of STAKEHOLDERS out there, and and I need to know who is who. So I know. I know how to manage them, not throughout the TRANSFORMATION.
PARTICIPANT 3So once once I do that, and I categorize them into like financial decision makers, or or CHAMPIONs, or derailers or influencers. Then I move into the PROCESS of giving
PARTICIPANT 3you know. Well, moving to the PROCESS of giving my COMMUNICATION speech or my kickoff speech to do the STAKEHOLDERS and anyone else that's
PARTICIPANT 3involved or being impacted by the TRANSFORMATION.
PARTICIPANT 3So part of that TRANSFORMATION talk or kick off MEETING is II go through an overview of the the program, you know, and I talk about the scope of work.
PARTICIPANT 3And you know, for for this particular
PARTICIPANT 3well, phones ringing. But the particular
PARTICIPANT 3TRANSFORMATION I'm thinking about now is the CLOUD TRANSFORMATION. So the scope of work was moving the applications to the CLOUD. There was a I talked about the scope of work, the SUCCESS criteria, you know, and which was more, the apps needed to be operational. They need to meet sla criteria and they wanted a cost reduction in in this movement of the application.
PARTICIPANT 3And then I talk about the adding principles and the SUCCESS factors.
PARTICIPANT 3that would be involved in in the particular program. Then I walked them through the road map of how we're gonna get there, you know. The planning the architecture design of what we're doing. You know we were
PARTICIPANT 3that you know the planning phase involved. You know us identifying what the goals and objectives were for the particular TRANSFORMATION and architecture design was, you know, they were going with a a hybrid CLOUD, and and then the migration execution, which was
PARTICIPANT 3more of a
PARTICIPANT 3re hosting. We were re hosting. It was that, like a lift and shift as opposed to, we were going to CHANGE what they had at that particular time.
PARTICIPANT 3You know. Later on they went into updating what they had, you know, and but they were NEW to it so initially. They just wanted to. You know, move to the CLOUD.
PARTICIPANT 3Then I talked about how would be govern, you know how we would measure
PARTICIPANT 3what we were doing, and then and then talked about how we would get with them to afterwards. To find out, you know, what they thought of the particular on TRANSFORMATION. Was it smooth, while what were the issues that we had? So we would do SURVEYs at at the end. So I told them all about. That's that's how we're gonna approach it, how we're gonna manage it, you know. And then
PARTICIPANT 3let's see what else that I would do during that that talk I would. I talk about the program structure of the the
PARTICIPANT 3TRANSFORMATION, you know. Who is, who how is gonna be led, you know. again, I would talk a little more about the objectives. I would talk about the design and architecture a little more. And then the migration, how we're gonna do the migration, you know, waves, are we gonna do waves or and so and then what apps? We're gonna be migrated.
PARTICIPANT 3So all of that would happen during that initial MEETING.
Unice Harris: Got it? Do you feel like that? Minimize the confusion and potential chaos at the start.
PARTICIPANT 3It. It definitely does cause there's a lot of questions that come up during that
PARTICIPANT 3during that COMMUNICATION and and the PEOPLE that I had categorizes, you know. CHAMPIONs were, you know, heads for going up and down, and the the naysayers were like Oh, no! And I kNEW what, based on the conversation I have with them. Prior to this COMMUNICATION, I kNEW what were there. Hot buttons were.
PARTICIPANT 3and once I kNEW the hot buttons, I made sure I covered that and and and talked about how we would mitigate some of the the risk that they thought were involved in in the TRANSFORMATION. So it was definitely helpful. Because it you you you can smooth everything out before you kick this thing off, and you answer a lot of the questions that the the naysayers have, and and then the CHAMPIONs, or they feel comfortable. If you can communicate what you're about to do.
PARTICIPANT 3They feel comfortable that they made the right decision.
PARTICIPANT 3So yeah, it was. It's very helpful to have that COMMUNICATION. We also talk about how the CHANGE is gonna happen. And and a lot of that is that's the most important is the CHANGE, you know.
PARTICIPANT 3is a major CHANGE. It's gonna happen throughout this TRANSFORMATION. It's gonna CHANGE, especially when you do a CLOUD migration. It's gonna CHANGE the culture of how you go about
PARTICIPANT 3doing things in the it and it, and even the business PEOPLE how they go about access accessing these applications.
PARTICIPANT 3It talks about. I talked about you know the how they how they would work work with the it DEPARTMENT, how? The it had a little more authority to do things because you could send up
PARTICIPANT 3and up servers and spend them down based on costs, so you can manage your costs a little better. There was a whole different mindset that the the ORGANIZATION needed to have so CHANGE MAANAGEMENT was very key to the whole TRANSFORMATION. And so II would spend time talking about the CHANGE and and how TRAINING needed to be done, and upscaling need to be done
PARTICIPANT 3for for some of the PEOPLE, and just a whole different mindset that they needed to have, and how that their MAANAGEMENT would would SUPPORT them on that. And so that was very key.
PARTICIPANT 3and if you don't, if you don't go through that part of it, the CHANGE part of it, you know you have your plan and everything. But if if you don't manage to CHANGE effectively, then they they TRANSFORMATIONs, not gonna work. Very interesting experience. And I kNEW you would have those kind of experiences. You've always been very meticulous in terms of your work.
Unice Harris: Presentation. And so that that is key and very significant you may not have any experience with this one, but can you share a time when you did not communicate the PURPOSE of the TRANSFORMATION?
PARTICIPANT 3Actually, I've you know, that was based in Ibm. It was always required, you know, and I was at Ibm forever. So we always had to have a kicked off MEETING, and we had to communicate what we were about to do. That was one of the first steps in in PROJECT MAANAGEMENT was that kicked off MEETING.
PARTICIPANT 3so we we never I. There were times that I took over the PROJECT for someone else, and the COMMUNICATION had not been done properly right, and I had to go back and say, Oh, wait a minute. Don't even know what's going on here. We probably need to level set again, but usually.
PARTICIPANT 3We. It was just it was required. It was a box that we need to check off before we kicked off any type of transition or TRANSFORMATION.
Unice Harris: Okay, Gotcha, question number 2, during the requirements for other phase of the TRANSFORMATION. Can you share how you inform cross functional TEAMS or the ORGANIZATION as a whole, of how the TRANSFORMATION would impact them specifically, and how it would affect or impact or enhance, how they do their work
Unice Harris: from a day to day.
PARTICIPANT 3Okay, from a day to day and cross functionally, II guess. During the requirements grabbing phase, I would again. That was part of me talking with the STAKEHOLDERS that I mentioned earlier, so I would talk to the STAKEHOLDERS, find out who were the subject matter. Experts on their TEAM. These are PEOPLE that gonna help us with the implementation. PEOPLE that would be impacted by the TRANSFORMATION.
PARTICIPANT 3I would and it wouldn't be me. It would be my TEAM would go in and meet with like this. I'll go back to the a previous example. They would meet with the application. Subject matter, experts, and
PARTICIPANT 3we would identify the applications that were being migrated. You know how critical those applications were, and all that INFORMATION would be brought back to me and then documented. And and once it's all documented, I would
PARTICIPANT 3go to the different
PARTICIPANT 3TEAMS or ORGANIZATIONs that were going to be affected by this TRANSFORMATION and talk about the applications that were going to be migrated up. You know how the dependencies that were attached to these applications, and how we were going to make sure that we didn't break any of those dependencies, or address those dependencies.
PARTICIPANT 3throughout the migration. So there was a another MEETING that needed to happen during the requirements. After we had sized what we were about to do. We needed to meet with the different ORGANIZATIONs that were impacted, and it was similar to like the Kickoff MEETING. Where, you know some of the questions that will come up on how we're gonna do it? Who is gonna be affected, you know.
PARTICIPANT 3if we know about the dependencies between these, the applications, these different applications. And so it was. It was very similar to the kickoff MEETING.
PARTICIPANT 3And you know, those same PEOPLE would show up at the kickoff MEETING to hear about what was going on. But there was like this pre-
PARTICIPANT 3MEETING that happened prior to that MEETING where STAKEHOLDERS impacted, ORGANIZATIONs will be pulled in, and you had to have that conversation with them also. Because again, you need everyone on board during the TRANSFORMATION. But and they need to be that one thing that I always
PARTICIPANT 3preaches COMMUNICATION COMMUNICATION. That's the key to winning on on a TRANSFORMATION or or any PROJECT is you've got. You need to communicate what you're about to do. And when PEOPLE like they don't know what's about to happen, and that's when you start running into problems. And so you there were many MEETINGS that would happen.
PARTICIPANT 3During that TRANSFORMATION, some prior to the kickoff, some during the kickoff. And then there's of course, there's status MEETINGS and everything that happened throughout the the TRANSFORMATION. And and and you really need to know
PARTICIPANT 3how to organize those MEETINGS? Who are the players that need to be there? And how do they want to see the INFORMATION that you're providing? And that's for some of the status MEETINGS that happen throughout, and sometimes those those
Unice Harris: the format of those presentations CHANGE based on your audience and and based on the input that they give that I don't understand what you're telling me. You know they'll they'll state that. And you'll say, Okay, I need to. I need to spend this a different way where they understand what's going on right? Right? Exactly. That's great INFORMATION. And the way that you're approaching that that leads to TRANSFORMATION and CHANGE without trauma.
Unice Harris: Yeah, because on the back end of that PEOPLE, they do. They literally experience trauma because they're so used to doing what you're doing. And you know they they have these situations where NEW
Unice Harris: applications are rolled out, and they don't know anything about them. Just jump in here quickly that you were very good at communicating that. I remember that on the Belt Airlines account, and that was what was so impressive
PARTICIPANT 3when we pulled you in that you were very good at communicating upfront what was about to happen? And we went through a lot of PEOPLE before we got to you and it. It was obvious that you kNEW what you were doing. So
PARTICIPANT 3thank you. Thank you. I've been at it for a long time. Design, phase, or any other phase before development or
Unice Harris: life cycle. Can you share how you provided TRAINING relative to the PROCESS TECHNOLOGY or the NEW TRANSFORMATION initiative. Or if you didn't provide any TRAINING at all.
PARTICIPANT 3We usually like for a CLOUD TRANSFORMATION, we we do have to provide TRAINING. And so the first thing we do is we look at their their, the
PARTICIPANT 3the needs. You know what type of TRAINING is necessary for the PEOPLE. So we look at the resources that they have within their ORGANIZATION
PARTICIPANT 3and and we find out, you know what levels they are and and then we identify TRAINING. And you know, with Microsoft, we have workshops. That we've already built in, because we know that a lot of companies are not
PARTICIPANT 3up to speed on the on CLOUD. So we have workshops that we provide
PARTICIPANT 3prior to the migration starting. And then throughout the migration there's there's different TRAININGs that we provide, and they're the workshops where we we bring in engineers to talk them through. You know what is the CLOUD, and how do you manage the costs in the CLOUD? And how do you set up the right for the CLOUD and
PARTICIPANT 3and and different things like that. So we we get them up to speed, get them comfortable. That's part of the cultural CHANGE that happens also cause that TRAINING is key to it. Where they they become comfortable with the NEW environment that they're working in and the rules and how to engage in that NEW environment. So
PARTICIPANT 3there's hands on on TRAINING with labs on summer lectures.
PARTICIPANT 3we also try to get them to certify. And we have programs where we entice them to certify. We may pay for, you know, 50 of the cost of the certification exam, and one time we paid 100. But over time, as as PEOPLE
PARTICIPANT 3start becoming more custom to the CLOUD, we'll we'll probably we'll play for 50% of what it would take. So there's we would we? We do customize TRAINING if necessary. We have this standard TRAINING. And then there's also certification.
PARTICIPANT 3TRAINING and preparation, so they can certify. So they they feel like they're
PARTICIPANT 3They are competent and and performing the task that they they need to perform
Unice Harris: good INFORMATION. Thank you. Question number 4, in the TESTING phase of the TRANSFORMATION life cycle. Can you share how you tested the NEW TECHNOLOGY or PROCESS. Maybe a user acceptance test to confirm that it works the way it should or some other type of TESTING
PARTICIPANT 3during the TESTING phase, we usually did user acceptance test TESTING. But there was also
PARTICIPANT 3 we did TESTING throughout the TRANSFORMATION. first, we would before the TRANSFORMATION, we would do a performance TESTING.
PARTICIPANT 3That's before the migration. Just to get a baseline on. Okay, what? What you have prior to us. Doing the migration. We will do functional TESTING at the end to make sure that every it's working the way that we thought it was supposed to work.
PARTICIPANT 3And that's us doing TESTING. And then there's some user TESTING, except this TESTING, which is where the end users are TESTING it and telling us, Yeah, this is how this is just as
PARTICIPANT 3efficient as it was before as it is is more efficient. We can get the application
PARTICIPANT 3faster. There's no way. We can get to our data. So there's a lot of TESTING. That happens, we'll even do like load TESTING and stress TESTING throughout. Just so that we make sure that the customer is getting what was expected, or or we we try to exceed their expectations. But there's much TESTING that goes on throughout
PARTICIPANT 3before, during and after
PARTICIPANT 3good. And do you feel like sometimes, or or did you experience that sometimes, after you tested, you had to go back and make some additional modifications before. It was rolled out into production. Oh, definitely, definitely, it doesn't always work like we expected it to work, and so when we find those, it may, you know it does affect the timeline somewhat.
PARTICIPANT 3Because that's a a setback. We'll we'll try to make it up.
PARTICIPANT 3You know, work on the weekend to correct what? What was
PARTICIPANT 3Causing the issue? And then we we drive on. But yeah, there's there's never perfect there's always something that's wrong. It could be something minor and something, major. But there's always something that may may go wrong. And and then we correct that, you know, like there's a dependency that we were. We didn't
PARTICIPANT 3identify during the upfront, and then we find out, oh, man, I didn't know this application was affected by this.
PARTICIPANT 3and now, what we need to go back and correct that or this, this application will not be migrated. We have to leave it. And then there's another MEETING that happens so like I said, the COMMUNICATION that happens. But we have to go back to the STAKEHOLDERS and said, and tell them that we didn't take into account. This we missed it, and so we'll have to leave this
PARTICIPANT 3on Prem until we can come up with a solution to move it to migrate it over. Or maybe we'll replace this application completely with something different. If
PARTICIPANT 3with your approval. Right? So. But it's lots of TESTING. And still we're back to COMMUNICATION, which I say COMMUNICATION is key, and it happens throughout
Unice Harris: perfect. Thank you. Were there any times where you didn't do any TESTING?
PARTICIPANT 3 I've
PARTICIPANT 3and
Unice Harris: them have to be?
PARTICIPANT 3Now I'm trying to think of. Are there any like on other type PROJECTs? I've had other type PROJECTs that maybe I have. I've missed. It was TESTING was probably done it just probably wasn't as thorough as it needed to be
PARTICIPANT 3which caused problems in the end. II know of one. I think I I'll talk about that one later where I didn't ask the right questions, upfront
PARTICIPANT 3and and there was some TESTING or some modifications that needed to be done
PARTICIPANT 3to make the PROJECT SUCCESSFUL, and I found out the day before the TRANSFORMATION was supposed to start, that we were not ready, and it delayed everything. I mean. It shifted everything by a couple of weeks
PARTICIPANT 3before we could start, which made the customer very unhappy.
PARTICIPANT 3and that was that was a miss.
Unice Harris: I'll bet I'll bet. And and how did you manage that?
PARTICIPANT 3Very good question. So I I had a sleepless night because I was trying to decide. Well, do I tell them, or do I just move forward, and then I try to correct it down the road. And I've I talked to my MAANAGEMENT about it. And and we decided, Yeah, you need to tell them upfront. And then you need to tell them that it's gonna be delayed.
PARTICIPANT 3And so I did. And I, you know I took the blows and they were very unhappy. They later on. They said they appreciated the fact that I told them
PARTICIPANT 3upfront, but still it didn't clear me of anything. I should have been prepared. I should have known but it was probably the right thing to do. You know, some PEOPLE would have gone. Drew, you know.
PARTICIPANT 3started the PROJECT and then came up with some other excuse that? Oh, yeah, yeah, we're gonna delay this because of this. But it was best to get that all straighten out prior to kicking off the TRANSFORMATION. And then, after that everything was smooth, right, but that it needed to be done, that that particular task needed to be done.
PARTICIPANT 3that that is amazing, that you were able to apply integrity to that whole PROCESS, and then just
Unice Harris: move it forward that way.
PARTICIPANT 3Yes, and and for that particular PROJECT we already had had issues. I had replaced someone who had done such a terrible job.
PARTICIPANT 3And so I came in to replace that person, and then then I missed that point. I was like, oh, so now I go back with, Oh, yeah, I missed this. And so that's why I was like a sleepless night. How do I handle this, you know, and you know that the right thing, instead of you know what I thought would, you know, make me not look as bad, or make the company not look as bad. I did the right thing. So II if I had to do it all over again, I would do it to say.
Unice Harris: and those integrity goes a long way. After the rollout into production. How are end users, employees, and STAKEHOLDERS allowed to offer feedback relative to what worked in production and what were what seem not to work smoothly.
PARTICIPANT 3We had SURVEYs part of our TRANSFORMATION PROCESS, and that started at Ibm, and and they do it. A great deal at Microsoft is. There's SURVEYs and questionnaires that are sent out.
PARTICIPANT 3They're sent out after like the kickoff. What do you think about what's about to happen? Blah blah blah! And then at the end, there's SURVEYs that that are sent out to the employees and to the STAKEHOLDERS to get to get feedback right on. You know. What do you think? Just half about this TRANSFORMATION that just happened? And where could where could we have done things better.
PARTICIPANT 3What is some of your complaints? So? And then, once we're into the the post migration, we're constantly, periodically sending out SURVEYs. How are we doing? How are we doing? Because we want more business right? And so we want to make sure that we're doing it right. And if any of the INFORMATION we correct collect.
PARTICIPANT 3we correct what they say is a problem right? And we would meet with them if necessary. If it's something that they really feel strongly about, and it's it's having a
PARTICIPANT 3they're having Major angst over it. Then we'd set up a MEETING and sit down and talk to them about it. Find out, okay, what? What can we do to help you here?
Unice Harris: Perfect. So after you rolled the SYSTEM or the solutions out into production, and received the feedback of the STAKEHOLDERS and customers. Did it eventually increase revenue.
PARTICIPANT 3Well, I would say yes, because if we're doing a good job. Then that means we're getting more business from them. Right? If we're doing a good job, that means. And as far as the CLOUD is concerned. If we're doing a good job, that means they're gonna use
PARTICIPANT 3more work. They're gonna put more workload on the CLOUD and the more workload they put on the CLOUD, the more money is generated, more REVENUEis generated. So yes, if we can keep them happy.
PARTICIPANT 3And I probably learned this at
PARTICIPANT 3Ibm is the the happier you keep those end users the more they use your product. Right? And so this is. This is very key to to generating more revenue. You need to know what they think, what they think about your product. And you need to need to make corrections.
PARTICIPANT 3And and once you make those corrections and make them happy, then they use your product more, and you can. It generates more revenue.
Unice Harris: awesome.
Unice Harris: Oh, boy, you need to be an instructor somewhere.
PARTICIPANT 3That's my next job.
PARTICIPANT 3Yeah. PROJECT MAANAGEMENT
Unice Harris: cause you know, a lot of times.
Unice Harris: although those technologies are
Unice Harris: supposed to generate REVENUEbecause of the way that they're implemented. They end up losing revenue
Unice Harris: and go figure. I don't know how that works. But
Unice Harris: you know sometimes from the start to the finish, clients are so frustrated with how they do things that they just end up losing REVENUEas opposed to generating revenue, because, you know, they've not built in the COMMUNICATION. They've not trained their end users. And so they roll it out into production. And PEOPLE don't know what it is. It's like, what are we supposed to do?
PARTICIPANT 3Yes.
PARTICIPANT 3you know, you'd be surprised how often that happens. So yeah, you definitely gotta get to a university.
Unice Harris: Is it on my bucket list? Yeah. Question number 6, can you share an example of a DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION that went very well. You've already done that also one that didn't go very well. What did you do differently between the 2?
PARTICIPANT 3Okay, let's see one that
PARTICIPANT 3didn't go. Well, okay, that the one remember II brought up the one that did not go well. And II have. You know there's an one that
PARTICIPANT 3did go well. It. It was a mining company that I was working with, and this was at
PARTICIPANT 3Ibm, and I went through my PROCESS of identifying the STAKEHOLDERS.
PARTICIPANT 3And what category they they fell in. And
PARTICIPANT 3There were 2 important STAKEHOLDERS, and one was, and they were added 2 different geographies. One was out of the Us. And one was out of South America, and they both had They were executives, so they had a lot of clout, and one was a derailer, and he thought that the whole PROJECT was a waste of time.
PARTICIPANT 3and that was the one out of the Us. And the one out of the South America was the one who had the the purse strings, and he was the CHAMPION towards this PROJECT, but the one in the Us. Was the one that I had to work with.
PARTICIPANT 3so my task was to keep the PROJECT on track
PARTICIPANT 3to align the 2 STAKEHOLDERS and then make sure that that
PARTICIPANT 3the plan activities were well managed, so that left little room for for for that derailer to step in there and disrupt
PARTICIPANT 3 So I kept the unSUPPORTed STAKEHOLDER
PARTICIPANT 3and his focus his, his TEAM briefed on all scheduled CHANGES within the environment, so that CHANGE MAANAGEMENT was very key, managing the CHANGES that were going on and then communicating those CHANGES to the unSUPPORTed STAKEHOLDER.
PARTICIPANT 3And anything that looked like it was going around a practice to alert the client, you know, prior to that event happening, you know, if a CHANGE is about to happen. I made sure they kNEW that the CHANGE was going to happen one week prior to that. To that CHANGE happening I always communicated that to them, or if I ran into a issue, I didn't hold it. I would
PARTICIPANT 3report that issue very early on, so that it it wasn't a II told you so. Moment with the non SUPPORTive STAKEHOLDER.
PARTICIPANT 3 and then II made it a point to keep the SUPPORT of STAKEHOLDER informed of all the activities. Right? The guy out of South America, you know what was going on. How I was handling, and he kNEW the other person was a derailer, how I was handling that particular person, and so
PARTICIPANT 3I had to manage both STAKEHOLDERS and and and that happened throughout. And then the results. It was it was SUCCESSFUL. The the 10 TRANSFORMATION was SUCCESSFUL. I had very little hiccups, I mean, I had uncomfortable conversations sometimes with the the one STAKEHOLDER. That was a derailer, but I was able to answer all of his questions and and satisfy him along the way, so he didn't make it easy for me.
PARTICIPANT 3but he was well informed. He kNEW about the CHANGES, the CHANGES were managed, and and then at the end it was SUCCESSFUL. So I got a you know. Good reading from both, which was surprising. Even you know it was. But it it was it. It didn't disrupt our business
PARTICIPANT 3now that was a good one. Now the bad one is the one that I brought up before. And it was
PARTICIPANT 3I was the what was the? It was a financial TRANSFORMATION finance SYSTEM. And they business PROCESSES and their Erp SYSTEM were going to be moved to an Ibm solution.
PARTICIPANT 3So
PARTICIPANT 3 I had a a 12 business PROCESS.
PARTICIPANT 3architects, or what were they called? You know, business business PROCESS analyst.
PARTICIPANT 3were being managed on this particular PROJECT, and then I had the sap TEAM. But the sap TEAM was a vendor right? And so I had to manage the vendor. The 12
PARTICIPANT 3business PROCESS PEOPLE were I Ibmers and the the sap configuration TEAM were were vendors, and so a day before. Go live, I was informed there was an issue with the sap set up, and I just the the problem there was. I did not manage my vendor properly.
PARTICIPANT 3I just assumed they kNEW what they were doing, and wherever they reported me I believe I didn't. I didn't verify, and that was a that was a problem. So, and that vendor was there like I said, someone else is running that TRANSFORMATION prior to me getting there. And they were doing it a a terrible job. And then I was moved in and I was moved in closer to the start date and I just
PARTICIPANT 3Hello!
PARTICIPANT 3What happened was There was they. There wasn't a proper segregation of duties within, Sab.
PARTICIPANT 3and so
PARTICIPANT 3hold it out. Then it was wide open. It was a security issue. PEOPLE could do, you know, approve things us submit and then approve on their own. So that was gonna be a major problem. So we got through with the TRANSFORMATION. It says, Oh, yeah, we're done. And that whole was there. And it was gonna cause our kind of problems. So
PARTICIPANT 3the what I had to do was I had to go to the to the the STAKEHOLDERS and tell them that.
PARTICIPANT 3We're gonna have to delay this for about a week cause we need to go through and and check their sap SYSTEM and look at the segregation of duties. Make sure that everybody's in the proper slots.
PARTICIPANT 3and so we delayed the go live
PARTICIPANT 3 So I just had to absorb the hit. And Ibm had absorbed additional costs because they that meant that they were gonna be resources that were going to be moved off
PARTICIPANT 3of of that particular
PARTICIPANT 3PROCESS, that financial ORGANIZATION, and with the better PROCESSES and the NEW sap SYSTEM that we're going to move these PEOPLE into other jobs and lay them off. But because
PARTICIPANT 3we laid it for a couple of weeks. They they had that
PARTICIPANT 3maintain those PEOPLE for a couple of weeks, which mean that was a cost. And so we absorbed the cost for them. So that was another hit on on that one. So what I learned from that is always check and verify, check and verify
PARTICIPANT 3throughout your TRANSFORMATION. Don't accept
PARTICIPANT 3someone's word for it. That oh, yeah, they're doing what they're supposed to be doing. If it's critical through the SUCCESS of your TRANSFORMATION that can verify
Unice Harris: good, awesome. Okay, I like that. And the the good thing about that.
Unice Harris: there there again, the application of integrity
PARTICIPANT 3allow you to do the right thing where that was concerned and still overcome. That that that big issue. So yes, yes, and and it was a you know, I always, even when there's something that goes wrong, you should be able to learn from it. And so II you know every time if I run into an issue where it? It looks so gloomy, you know. If you got lemons you gotta make lemonade. I'll figure out, okay. What did I learn from
PARTICIPANT 3what? What can I take from that that I can as a positive, so I can move forward with it. I just know, you know. Talk over and say, well, with me, it's like, Okay.
PARTICIPANT 3that was bad. But there's something I could learn from that, and I will fix it the next time. And you know I'm I make sure that I'm SUCCESSFUL. At the end of whatever was going on in that TRANSFORMATION. Yeah, I was pushed off
PARTICIPANT 3off of target. Miss, I missed a milestone, my timeline but I corrected it, and and that won't happen again. I learned from that. So
PARTICIPANT 3I always bring this one up. Even when I was like interviewing I was leaving. Ibm. I always bought this one up because it was something that I learned from, and it it hasn't happened to me since.
Unice Harris: Wow! That's amazing. Thank you for sharing that
Unice Harris: and I think you answer. You've already answered question number 8, after the rollout into production. How did the TRANSFORMATION give you or the employees and STAKEHOLDERS the results that were expected?
Unice Harris: I think you answered that
Unice Harris: with the CLOUD TRANSFORMATION, because you mentioned that
Unice Harris: you know they used
Unice Harris: more and then that INCREASED REVENUEper se from my standpoint. But on the on the other side it's
PARTICIPANT 3I know, SUCCESSFUL. If I achieve the objective. If I hit the milestones, you know, from a TRANSFORMATION standpoint.
PARTICIPANT 3Was I within budget?
PARTICIPANT 3Then, something that's a little subjective. How was the TEAM that deployed it? Were they satisfied with what the results? And then that SURVEY for the customer. Find out if they're satisfied, and then the quality it was the quality of the work done. Did it meet the customers? Expect expectations that exceed the expectation.
PARTICIPANT 3So I look at all of those and say, Okay, I was SUCCESSFUL. If I, if I hit the objectives and the milestones in the budget, and the customer satisfied, and then the quality is there and is is considered a SUCCESS
PARTICIPANT 3perfect. Can you share an activity
Unice Harris: that you, took to create a DIGITAL innovation mindset within the entire ORGANIZATION.
PARTICIPANT 3That that goes back to the TRAINING and the workshops.
And the the TRAINING that happens prior to
PARTICIPANT 3 the TRANSFORMATION during the TRANSFORMATION after TRANSFORMATION. There is a cultural CHANGE that has to happen, especially when you're doing CLOUD
PARTICIPANT 3migration of CLOUD taking a customer on a CLOUD journey. They have to re envision how they go about doing things and where they're getting
PARTICIPANT 3like their applications. From where do they place their workload? Who has the authority to to like? If let's say they're building an application?
PARTICIPANT 3They need to be trained on, and and devops that you know, you can spin up a test environment, test your application and spin it down.
PARTICIPANT 3whereas, prior to going to the CLOUD. You have to go get servers. You have to get this test sandbox. You have all some the the infrastructure group and say, please, could you, you know, get the a server, and you give them gave them the specifications of the server that you needed, or whatever platform that you needed, you would give them the specifications. Then they would have to go.
PARTICIPANT 3They didn't have it, and which would delay your TESTING, or you would skip that TESTING and move on, and then maybe you would get what you needed near the end of rolling out that particular application, and then you find out, oh, wow! It doesn't work on on this type of platform. So we need to go back and make some CHANGES. So within the CLOUD environments like, no, you pick what you want.
PARTICIPANT 3you can set it up yourself.
PARTICIPANT 3You could spin it up. You could test your application. Then you could spin it back down and then you have to teach them about managing costs, though there's a cost to spinning things up and running these things and and how is your how does your MAANAGEMENT govern that? Do they give you complete authority to do it? Or they give you a range of authority.
PARTICIPANT 3And so all of that happens during
PARTICIPANT 3during the before, before and during the TRANSFORMATION where you're doing a cultural CHANGE. But the key to that cultural CHANGE. It has to start at the top, and that it's the leaders at the top that need to know
PARTICIPANT 3that this CHANGE is happening. They need to BUYINto the CHANGE as as happening, and then they need to let it blow boot down throughout their ORGANIZATION. So
PARTICIPANT 3what I've seen is that some of these leaders
PARTICIPANT 3feel like, you know, especially if you're a manager of a a group of it resources. And you hear this CLOUD coming. And PEOPLE are gonna manage a lot of the things that your PEOPLE used to manage. You feel like, Oh, I'm gonna lose some PEOPLE. And then you feel like, maybe they don't need me anymore. So you have to convince them that you're not gonna be lost. You have to have this CLOUD
PARTICIPANT 3first mentality. And
PARTICIPANT 3you have to embrace this this NEW innovative
PARTICIPANT 3platform that we're trying to sell you a way of doing business
PARTICIPANT 3and and get TRAINING that's necessary, and understand what's going on in the CLOUD and what's going on in your ORGANIZATION, and how to use your PEOPLE differently. You may, you know, sometimes you're gonna lose some PEOPLE, but a lot of times you keep the PEOPLE and you just have them doing more of the core business as opposed to those administrative pass that they were doing before.
PARTICIPANT 3And so
PARTICIPANT 3it's it's a it's all part of the TRAINING. It's part of the CHANGE MAANAGEMENT, cultural CHANGE MAANAGEMENT. Which involves the TRAINING of the employees and then ex explaining them, explaining to them how their business PROCESSES will CHANGE. And so that happens more time than not. When you're doing a a CLOUD migration.
PARTICIPANT 3There's a lot that happens within that ORGANIZATION that you have to give them the the innovative mindset. And now to have artificial intelligence coming on board is, it's becoming even more key to get the proper TRAINING and the knowledge to the PEOPLE. Because you got the CLOUD and you got artificial intelligence, and you bring all that together. It's a major CHANGE. It CHANGES everything. So
PARTICIPANT 3you know, you're talking about you're gonna be around about 12 years more. I was thinking, Okay, I'm gonna slow down. I'm gonna go do this and then wait a minute. This is interesting. This is a game CHANGEr.
PARTICIPANT 3And II wanna stick around a little longer to see where this goes because this
PARTICIPANT 3this is this is
PARTICIPANT 3This is a pivotal moment in in it and and in everything, as I'm bringing this AI on and that. And so back to the TRANSFORMATION, we're trans, we TRANSFORM PEOPLE from on-prem to the CLOUD. Now, we got this artificial intelligence is, which is, gonna
PARTICIPANT 3do even more. And it was. It was logical that it happened.
PARTICIPANT 3It was logical happen, because once we started putting all that data out there in the world. And you got everything from, you know, the Internet to tick, tock to. There's all this intelligence that we just started creating.
Unice Harris: that somebody figured out how to harness and turn it into this artificial intelligence. And then, now, we can use that data to do some some pretty incredible things. Yeah, I'm excited about it, too. I mean, there's the machine. Learning so many other facets of AI that PEOPLE are not even looking at yet and feel like it's exciting. But
Unice Harris: there has to be an ethical component, someone within every ORGANIZATION. This is a
Unice Harris: this was gonna lead us into a lawsuit. Better scale back in terms of that, because, literally with Jenner, today, you've got a discriminator and a genius
Unice Harris: that you know, they, the the discriminator and the generator. They just keep arguing, arguing back and forth until you get a perfect image, and somebody that takes something like a Picasso painting and runs it through that discriminator. And that generator they can produce images that look almost exactly like a multi 1 million dollar painting, and.
Unice Harris: you know, distributed for the same price. So there has to be some ethics around that whole thing. You know, you can do that same thing with bank statements. You can do that same
Unice Harris: cancer or other disease diagnosis, you know. You know, you have to think in terms of medical innovation doctors that
PARTICIPANT 3don't have ethics and integrity. They, you know, they want to use those images to line their pockets. Those misdiagnoses. So it it it definitely is exciting. I. And a dark side to everything. So well, you know they're thinking about, or they're not even thinking about it. Some companies are hiring ethicists. AI, chief
PARTICIPANT 3AI ethicis, and that's their job is to check the the products that are being developed, using AI and making sure that ethical making sure they don't have bias in that, because there's that's another issue that you run into. You could have someone who has bias against women and bias against minorities. And they build into their AI SYSTEM that bias right? And it's and and that AI SYSTEM is making decisions for the company.
PARTICIPANT 3A decision is about a product. And you know, women are saying, Whoa!
PARTICIPANT 3Why does this this not work for me? Or you know this is discriminating against me, or or minorities are saying it doesn't work for me right? And why is it? And it's. And they said, Well, I didn't do anything. This the computer, right? It's artificial intelligence. But man made that artificial intelligence. And if we built the bias into that artificial intelligence. Then we're you're still being discriminated against. So it's gonna be.
Unice Harris: it's gonna be prevalent. I mean, things like CLOUD TECHNOLOGY. And AI. It's moving forward, whether we like it or not. To be proactive, to get ahead of it.
Unice Harris: To see, you know, to to make certain that those
Unice Harris: integrity use all the time is built into that. So so last question, can you share why, you think CHANGE MAANAGEMENT is important or not important.
PARTICIPANT 3CHANGE MAANAGEMENT is very important. as I stated earlier, you have ORGANIZATIONal CHANGE when that's the PROCESSES and the tools that you're gonna use within the ORGANIZATION. You need to make sure that those you you manage that CHANGE. And then you have the cultural CHANGE where it's a a mindset, you know. Is it? Is it innovative mindset? Is how? What authority do you have to do things that you were doing? Are you now a decision maker at the lower level.
PARTICIPANT 3Because of this cultural CHANGE that happened, you know, you might have more authority to do things as opposed to waiting for your boss to tell you what to do. Now you have more authority. You might be able to be a little more innovative on your own, and bring that and and push that
PARTICIPANT 3up to your superiors as opposed to them, pushing down ideas to you. So I think the cultural CHANGE.
PARTICIPANT 3And you know, the whole ORGANIZATIONal CHANGE that needs to happen within an ORGANIZATION when a TRANSFORMATION is happening. That's a key. And I've worked on
PARTICIPANT 3PROJECTs that we didn't have a CHANGE manager. And and if you don't have a CHANGE, manager, things will go awry. You need a CHANGE, manager, and I know within Ibm I worked on a couple of PROJECTs. I says, I need a CHANGE manager, and I'm like, it's not in the budget, you know we. We budget it for everything except the CHANGE manager. So you're it
PARTICIPANT 3and at that point you have to come up with your own CHANGE MAANAGEMENT plan, and you have to manage it. Maybe you designate someone on your TEAM to to do it. But you need to make sure that you're involved in in designing that
PARTICIPANT 3that how it's gonna be reported, what needs to be captured. And then you manage that CHANGE, because if you don't manage to CHANGE, things will go go awry. I mean you. You'll just run into all kind of problems. So CHANGE MAANAGEMENT.
PARTICIPANT 3COMMUNICATION.
PARTICIPANT 3Where CHANGE MAANAGEMENT falls underneath that within that. But COMMUNICATION is key. You gotta communicate, communicate, communicate. But you gotta manage. CHANGE and CHANGE is
PARTICIPANT 3is happening throughout the TRANSFORMATION, and you gotta manage it from a cultural level to the tools and the PROCESSES. You have to manage that CHANGE to the attitude of the managers seeing the CHANGE happening. And they feel like they're losing control of their ORGANIZATION, and the things that they were very comfortable in doing. And from down the level of the PEOPLE doing the work that they see. You know different application. Way of you know. Am I still to do this?
PARTICIPANT 3If if I'm not skilled to do it. Am I about to lose my job or CHANGE caused me to lose my job cause I'm I you know I'm no longer needed. You have to make them comfortable, and I remember one deal that I worked on where that was key to me. II had a MEETING with
PARTICIPANT 3the the PEOPLE that were being affected by the job. Their managers were invited, but III told them to send in their it staff. They came in, and then we talked about the things that was gonna happen, and II listened to all the questions. After that INFORMATION, reported it back their manager. Some of the managers showed up, some didn't
PARTICIPANT 3and then
PARTICIPANT 3we worked in, making sure that CHANGE did not have a negative impact on on the PEOPLE. I mean some. It it did, some did get laid off because of the CHANGE, but for the most part we were able to manage that TRANSFORMATION much better because we were managing CHANGE. And so yes, CHANGE is very important.
Unice Harris: Thank you wonderful. Listen. I want to thank you for participating in this study. Your experience and education is invaluable. I will pull together.
PARTICIPANT 3The INFORMATION is, send it out to you. If you wanna CHANGE anything about your interview. Let me know within 3 days, and then I will get that CHANGE. And then also, if you want a copy of the study. I'll send you in study. I'll send you INFORMATION on how to get that. I'll send it over to you once it's done sound good.
PARTICIPANT 4
WEBVTT
Unice Harris: Good morning.
PARTICIPANT 4 Hi! Good morning.
Unice Harris: Hi, Sabi! How are you doing? Good? So we I have my video off
PARTICIPANT 4 cause I'll just be recording the audio and nothing else.
Unice Harris: and
PARTICIPANT 4 thank you so much for participating in my study for my doctor's degree. I still appreciate you, and I noticed when you were doing conferences or luncheon learns a couple of years back, I'm thinking, wow, he has experience. Yeah. So your input and your feedback is invaluable to the study.
Unice Harris: So basically, the PURPOSE of the study is to talk through the BENEFITS of incorporating CHANGE MAANAGEMENT into DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION.
Unice Harris: probably, as you know, many of the DIGITAL TRANSFORMATIONs are failing. Over the years. Probably more than 70% of them are failing. And I did a detailed study about that in this kind of you know, collecting data on that study. And if you want a copy of the final study. I will send that to you. Just shoot me an EMAIL. Let me know that you want a copy of it.
PARTICIPANT 4 And
Unice Harris: we'll go ahead and get started. Any questions that you have for me before we get started. I'll ask you 9 questions, and you just give me your honest feedback and we'll document it from there.
PARTICIPANT 4 Yeah, no, thank you for that. I will definitely would love to. Get a copy of that on the study. Because, yeah, in my experiences, I've seen similar kind of challenges where multiple PROJECTs DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION PROJECTs are fairly failing.
PARTICIPANT 4 And ORGANIZATIONal CHANGE MAANAGEMENT is such a key piece in making sure that you know, those PROJECTs get delivered on time and provides at the end of the day provides that value. So I would love to. Get a copy of that.
Unice Harris: That would be wonderful. And hopefully you can take that INFORMATION in the study and incorporate it into what you're doing, and then, you know, be a force in terms of helping PEOPLE within our industry. Turn that PROCESS around. You know, and minimize some of the failures. Going forward. So I'll go ahead and start with the questions. Question number one
Unice Harris: during the initiation or other phase or start of the PROJECT. Can you share a time when you communicated the PURPOSE of the TRANSFORMATION PROJECT to the ORGANIZATION, and how it would enhance or help
Unice Harris: the ORGANIZATION.
PARTICIPANT 4 Yeah, definitely. So you know, one of the, you know, complex DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION which I did
PARTICIPANT 4 start started a PROJECT in 2,018, and it was a. It was a very different experience for me, because the PROJECT actually started in 2,008, and for 10 years had failed multiple times.
PARTICIPANT 4 So I was coming into a PROJECT which had a lot of this baggage so changing the PURPOSE of the PROJECT, and actually identifying and communicating the the.
PARTICIPANT 4 the, the.
Unice Harris: Are you still with me?
Unice Harris: Let's see me see if I can shut some.
PARTICIPANT 4 Yeah, I'm here.
PARTICIPANT 4 The
can you hear me? Oh, wow!
Unice Harris: Sabi, are you still here?
Unice Harris: Okay, perfect. Thank you. So much for that. I apologize for that.
Unice Harris: The technical issue there. So let's just go ahead and jump right back in. You were telling me that you started a PROJECT in 2018, and the PROJECT actually had started in 2,008 and had failed multiple times
Unice Harris: and go ahead and continue from there.
PARTICIPANT 4 Thing was that it was very important to share the PURPOSE of the PROJECT, but coming into fail. PROJECT.
PARTICIPANT 4 the the PURPOSE. PEOPLE already know what the PURPOSE of the PROJECT is, so you need a little bit more.
PARTICIPANT 4 You have to
PARTICIPANT 4 do 2 things. One is, you should be very clear about your own why and your own PURPOSE. Why, you're doing that. And then the second is, you need to reframe the the story because PEOPLE have a negative connotation about that particular PROJECT. So how are we gonna reframe
PARTICIPANT 4 and say, it's not that particular. It's not the same PROJECT as previously, and that's where ORGANIZATIONal CHANGE MAANAGEMENT becomes such a huge piece of the conversation that needs to happen. So starting from the very beginning, right? So sharing, why are we doing it? And why I am doing it? So that PEOPLE can connect to my Vi. And that's very important for a leader to
PARTICIPANT 4 to share that vision and that importance of that. Otherwise, you know, folks are not gonna be behind that particular PROJECT. So I
PARTICIPANT 4 that's where we started and and went from there.
Unice Harris: That makes perfect sense. Thank you for sharing that when you started. How did you communicate that corporate? Why was it EMAIL, or MEETING, or sharepoint or other? What other kind of form of COMMUNICATION. How did you guys communicate the PURPOSE of that PROJECT? Alright? So it was. First of all, it was in the program chart
PARTICIPANT 4 very clearly. What is the PURPOSE of the PROJECT? So we redefined our charter and clearly defined that then it was more in terms of one on one
PARTICIPANT 4 MEETINGS with the with the TEAM members reiterating that. And then also as part of TEAM MEETINGS. We shared it because it. You know folks
Unice Harris: need to listen it multiple times before they get it. Got it? Got it? That's perfect. Can you also share a time when you did not, or when someone on the TEAM starting the PROJECT did not communicate the PURPOSE of the PROJECT or TRANSFORMATION.
Unice Harris: And how? What? That experience was
PARTICIPANT 4 right, you know previously.
PARTICIPANT 4 When I was not in the role of a pro program man or PROJECT manager for that. But previously, I think, the the PURPOSE wasn't defined clearly
PARTICIPANT 4 and wasn't communicated. You know, it was communicated as, oh, it's a it's a TECHNOLOGY PROJECT, right? We are just upgrading upgrading our permit SYSTEM.
PARTICIPANT 4 So that's not the PURPOSE of your PROJECT, right PURPOSEs more, how it's changing lives, how it's impacting our community. Our customers. How you know it. It's it's
PARTICIPANT 4 it's it's the way you communicate. I'm gonna give you an example. So
PARTICIPANT 4 we went to I went to see the TEAM. I want to see the work which was being done. And this was basically a permit SYSTEM. Additional TRANSFORMATION PROJECT for for putting a permit SYSTEM which has been never upgraded for 20 years. So I went to visit the permit SYSTEM, and all the plans were being submitted through paper.
PARTICIPANT 4 and I saw, like, you know, bandages and first aid boxes over there. And I was like, why do we have this like? Why do you have these bandage boxes and apartment SYSTEMS? They were like, you know, Savi, you don't believe.
PARTICIPANT 4 you know that, how many paper cuts we get every single day? Because we have to deal with all these papers
PARTICIPANT 4 and those paper cuts are oh, man, I can't! I can't even imagine. So we have bandages. So there was like there was like blood on those on those paper
PARTICIPANT 4 on those on those design papers, right on those. She's those like man. We're not. We're not. We're not upgrading apartment SYSTEM. We're changing lives. We're saving PEOPLE's blood right? Taking it in a funny way. That's the kind of real stories where PEOPLE connect with you, so I don't think that was ever
PARTICIPANT 4 communicated in that way, saying, You know, why are we doing it? It was just like, you know, it's a PROJECT, and we have to upgrade our SYSTEM. Or we're putting a NEW permit SYSTEM in place.
Unice Harris: Perfect question number 2 during the requirements or other phase of the TRANSFORMATION. Can you share how you informed cross-functional TEAMS of the ORGANIZATION within the ORGANIZATION as a whole.
Unice Harris: of how the TRANSFORMATION was specifically impact them, and how would affect or impact or enhance how they do their work. So a time where
Unice Harris: a lot of times when you implement a TRANSFORMATION, it impacts multiple different DEPARTMENTs. And I'm asking to share how you informed the cross functional TEAMS about how it would specifically impact their work.
PARTICIPANT 4 Yeah. So this was more again, one-on-one MEETINGS with those STAKEHOLDERS identifying that.
Unice Harris: And then we also had a customer STAKEHOLDER group.
PARTICIPANT 4 which was part of the which was actually the part of the governance TEAM, right? So the the
PARTICIPANT 4 it wasn't making the decision on what goes in and what goes out. We were the facilitators of the that discussion. But the Governance Committee was the one which came together and said, Okay, these are the things which
PARTICIPANT 4 which we should go in phase, one phase 2, phase 3. And you know they understand the business well, so they kNEW what impact it's gonna have on that. But that was one way of doing that, and also second one was getting their feedback from them. Not only through 101's, but also through SURVEYs
PARTICIPANT 4 we had, ORGANIZATIONal CHANGE manager as part of the TEAM. And she had the COMMUNICATIONs TEAM under her and as well as the TRAINING TEAM according to her. And they were MEETING those STAKEHOLDERS and figuring it out, how it's gonna impact them and how we can, how we can minimize the impact as well as how do we train them for the NEW CHANGES which are gonna impact them?
Unice Harris: Got it perfect? And then, when you did that, did you feel like it minimized confusion about how the solution will impact each of them.
PARTICIPANT 4 Absolutely.
Unice Harris: Okay.
Unice Harris: Question number 3
Unice Harris: in the design phase or any other phase before development of the DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION life cycle or any other phase. Can you share how you provide a TRAINING relative to the NEW PROCESS TECHNOLOGY or NEW TRANSFORMATION initiative.
PARTICIPANT 4 Right? So we used to do open house sessions and then we should do town halls. So open House sessions was we would bring it. We will bring all the STAKEHOLDERS together. We'll give them update. We'll probably
PARTICIPANT 4 give them a demo of one of the functionalities to start communicating about the CHANGE, and then back to them. We also dig Town Hall MEETINGS, where we would bring the whole TEAM together, invite everyone and anyone to come and ask any questions which they have. We also created TRAINING materials different kind of TRAINING materials. We had
PARTICIPANT 4 the TRAINING TEAM creating online TRAINING videos the documentation of the NEW PROCESSES. And then also how like classroom type TRAININGs to get the users ready for the NEW the NEW CHANGE.
Unice Harris: Got it? Okay? And did you find that that minimize confusion about how the solution would impact them?
PARTICIPANT 4 Yes, TRAINING is such a key piece of helping the user to minimize the impact which is which which they're gonna have. And you know, doing that one on one sessions with some of the key STAKEHOLDERS who were the critical folks in there and helping them do that walk through was very helpful, and they were very appreciative of that approach.
Unice Harris: Okay.
Unice Harris: thank you. Can you also share a time where you didn't provide TRAINING or you know th, the or the PROJECT STAKEHOLDERS or PROJECT managers or program managers didn't provide the TRAINING
PARTICIPANT 4 you know.
PARTICIPANT 4 for that specific for that specific PROJECT.
PARTICIPANT 4 I you know, I don't think that we we left any of the STAKEHOLDERS group out. So we did provide TRAINING. But for any other PROJECT.
PARTICIPANT 4 Let me think if you know, especially your, your question is more related to the DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION PROJECT. Not like, yeah, E, and and you could be TRANSFORMing a PROCESS of program and application or anything to a more DIGITAL approach.
Unice Harris: and if there was a time and and some in some cases there just wasn't a time. A lot of times. PEOPLE, you know, can't find a time where they haven't provided the necessary TRAINING. And if you don't have anything in your experience, you know, that's that's okay. But is there a time where you, you know, just didn't see the TRAINING provided? And what was the experience around that?
PARTICIPANT 4 Yeah. we have, you know, in my experiences, we did have. We have provided TRAINING. But the level of TRAINING could be different where we didn't have the capacity to train everybody so. But we just provided them with the link, saying, Okay, here's the TRAINING. Go and attend it. Right? So that wasn't the
PARTICIPANT 4 because we didn't have the capacity to provide that, you know, classroom TRAINING or one on one TRAINING. We just send them a link and said, here you go. That wasn't the best experience for the end users, and that caused a lot of questions. And
PARTICIPANT 4 you know, lot of time from our perspective to to answer those questions at a later time, or to resolve some of the tickets which were related to not able to do a good job with that TRAINING
Unice Harris: perfect makes perfect sense. Thank you for sharing
Unice Harris: question number 4 in the TESTING phase of the DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION lifecycle. Can you share how you tested the NEW TECHNOLOGY or PROCESS, maybe a user acceptance test to confirm that it works the way it should.
PARTICIPANT 4 Yeah. So we used to do. You know,
PARTICIPANT 4 we had a Qid quality assurance TESTING. And then Ua user acceptance TESTING we automated our test script. So at least from the TECHNOLOGY perspective, we we which actually helped in fast tracking some of the TESTING because some of those TRANSFORMATIONs you need to deliver at a fast pace because of so many dependencies on that. And then the user acceptance TESTING was a mix of
PARTICIPANT 4 you know, a business analyst basically working with with end users where they have already identified the used cases test use cases and going through those step by step and making sure those that th the outcome which is identified
PARTICIPANT 4 matches with what we actually get. So we did put focus on the Qat and the Uat and that
Unice Harris: perfect
PARTICIPANT 4 do you feel like it helped the implementation? Do you feel like it minimize confusion about how the solution was really, gonna what's supposed to work? Absolutely, you know. It helps to identify the bugs and all the all the the way that the application should behave, or the way a a user is accepting is is
PARTICIPANT 4 expecting that application to behave. So it helps to clear out that confusion, and also helps to educate the end user who are TESTING that application. And it's also sometimes a great TRAINING exercise for them how to basically use use the NEW SYSTEM.
Unice Harris: Okay? Can you share a time when you didn't test at all?
Unice Harris: No, no, I've never done. And hopefully, no one should ever be doing or releasing anything without TESTING they, you know. You'd be surprised. I was really surprised, because
Unice Harris: sometimes they do. Sometimes they get caught up in getting to the market first. And so they develop SYSTEMS and solutions. And they just know that it works. And they in their arrogance. They put it out there. Without proper TESTING. And I've seen some really disaster situations.
Unice Harris: resulting from that.
PARTICIPANT 4 I can only imagine. I can only imagine.
Unice Harris: okay, question number 5
Unice Harris: after the rollout into production. How were end users, employees, and STAKEHOLDERS allowed to offer feedback relative to what worked in production
Unice Harris: and what seemed not to work smoothly.
PARTICIPANT 4 Alright. So we had paper copies, feedback forms, basically for the folks who were when we went into the production.
PARTICIPANT 4 We also had a online SURVEY. We also provided like a online ticketing SYSTEM, basically to submit any issues which they have.
PARTICIPANT 4 And we we also had identified. I will say the the folks who were present at
PARTICIPANT 4 critical locations and to be so that end users can contact them and can provide their feedback to them. So it was a multi layered approach for getting feedback from then users.
Unice Harris: and for those PROJECTs that you rolled into production and received that feedback. Those TRANSFORMATIONs? Did they eventually increase revenue?
PARTICIPANT 4 You know, it's a public sector PROJECT. I won't say it increased.
PARTICIPANT 4 You know, REVENUEis not the key factor. Focus on that, but
PARTICIPANT 4 But if I look from another way, it did in help and increase, and reducing the pain which, which conversely, help to increase the number of folks who can get through the SYSTEM quickly, absolutely less painful for them. So the barriers were removed.
PARTICIPANT 4 or from paper to more online pieces in there that really help them. I think the key piece was the CUSTOMER SATISFACTION.
Unice Harris:  okay? And so with respect to that CUSTOMER SATISFACTION, you're thinking that because the customer set is satisfied, they're gonna use the SYSTEM more, and that will subsequently increase revenue.
PARTICIPANT 4 Yes.
Unice Harris: okay, gotcha and then
Unice Harris: within the ORGANIZATION, after you rolled it out.
Unice Harris: allowed them TRAINING TESTING, and then post production feedback. Do you feel like it? Members of the ORGANIZATION seemed more receptive to CHANGE or more hesitant?
PARTICIPANT 4 I think they were more receptive of the CHANGE. Because then, what we did was we transition it from a PROJECT to a product make based approach. And you know, and part part of that was that we didn't want to be in that same situation. We were earlier. So we put in things in place where we were releasing and updating the SYSTEM
PARTICIPANT 4 upgrades every once every 3 months, or 6 months depending upon what was coming out from the vendor side. So we implemented some of the devops principles in getting this getting some of those upgrades out in a in a much quicker way, rather than waiting for years to get some of upgrades done.
Unice Harris: Gotcha? Question number 6. Can you share an example of a TRANSFORMATION that went very well
Unice Harris: also one that didn't go very well. What did you do differently between the 2?
PARTICIPANT 4 Yeah. So this is a great example, right implementation of a city of Portland's permit SYSTEM. We call it pops Portland online permitting SYSTEM it. Previously it didn't go. Well, you know, for 10 years had multiple starts and multiple stops. But
PARTICIPANT 4 you know, and 2,018 when we came came in and started on this PROJECT again. It went very well. Right? So PEOPLE have this thought that this will never, ever go live. But we were able to go live on February 1020, 20, just before the pandemic happened. So that went that went well.
Unice Harris: wow, wow! That's amazing. So essentially, you were able to take a PROJECT that had been delayed and stopped and behind schedules for more than 10 years or so, and you were able to deliver it within just over 2 years.
Unice Harris: That's amazing. That is amazing.
Unice Harris: Question number 7. Can you share any activity taken to create a more DIGITAL innovation mindset within the ORGANIZATION?
Unice Harris: And then has it helped or hurt the willingness to CHANGE? And I think that you cover that a little bit. Within your
Unice Harris: honestly just
Unice Harris: taking a 10 year PROJECT and delivering it within 2 years. That had to do a whole lot for their DIGITAL innovation mindset. But can you clarify? You know what your perception of of how it helped their mindset and made them more receptive to future PROJECT CHANGES absolutely right? So there were, there were many use cases. So as part of this program, we had 6 different PROJECTs.
PARTICIPANT 4 And one of that was ability for inspectors to do their inspection. So what was happening previously was like, if you want to get
PARTICIPANT 4 if you're building a house or a commercial building, and you want to get it inspected by a by an inspector. You will call 1 800 number. It will go into a queue then somebody will take all those notes, and we'll put it into the SYSTEM, and in the morning it will print out all the inspections that are supposed to be done
PARTICIPANT 4 the Supervisor will look at all those inspections and say, Okay, you know, Inspector A, based on you are here based on your skill set and availability. Here are 3 or 4 inspections you can do through that day.
PARTICIPANT 4 Then the inspectors will go back into their seats, start putting the notes in the SYSTEM. Go to Google Maps. Say, Okay, what is the best route I'm gonna take
PARTICIPANT 4 today to do all those 5, 4, or 5 inspections. Then they will go out into the field. They will take all the notes on their on their sheets. Of all the inspections. They did take all the pictures. They will come back into the office, and we'll type those notes back into the SYSTEM and we'll upload all those pictures.
PARTICIPANT 4 What we did was we automated that PROCESS inspection PROCESS. So what we did was all the inspections received
Unice Harris: an algorithm would run at night, which will look at the availability and the skill set of a particular inspector.
PARTICIPANT 4 and depending upon the proximity of you, know where all the inspections need to be done will automize their route.
PARTICIPANT 4 and we'll send that that INFORMATION to the inspector on the inspector app, so they don't even have to come into the office. What they can do is they they will get in the morning saying, Okay, here are the 5 inspections which you need to do right for 6 inspections you need to do. Then they will go on site and they will take the notes right there on the inspector app. They will use that app to take all this, all their pictures.
PARTICIPANT 4 And by the end of the day, you know, they will be
PARTICIPANT 4 done, basically with all the inspections without actually coming back into the office and doing that. Do a labor of, you know, taking the notes, writing on a paper, bringing it, you know, break coming back into the office and typing it again. So it it really, you know, helped
PARTICIPANT 4 the the folks looking at. Okay, you know, this is not here to make my job up, but it is such a easy PROCESS for me to now to able to do my job effectively, and I'm glad we were able to get that thing done, because that was February 2020. And right after that in March we had
PARTICIPANT 4 Covid, as you know. So folks who are working from home. But at least they were able to get some of these things done because we were able to roll out this functionality? At such a critical time.
Unice Harris: Wow! Now, that's innovation. That's innovation. That's that's being able to quickly pivot and innovate where
Unice Harris: others can't. And then
Unice Harris: the incorporation into their skill set and to automatically assign them according to their skill. Set. That's amazing. You don't see that often in city government or state government, TECHNOLOGY. So
Unice Harris: that's amazing. Question number 9, can you share? Why, you think CHANGE MAANAGEMENT is important or not important
PARTICIPANT 4 CHANGE MAANAGEMENT is important. You know, the the district TRANSFORMATIONs, as you mentioned, earlier, majority of them fail. And the number one reason that those DIGITAL TRANSFORMATIONs fail is because of PEOPLE issues. I saw a data somewhere which said, 92% of these failed because of PEOPLE issues. So it's not a TECHNOLOGY CHANGE. It's more PEOPLE CHANGE
PARTICIPANT 4 ORGANIZATIONs don't CHANGES to PEOPLE with CHANGE. So that's where the key and the critical
PARTICIPANT 4 piece is for making any ORGANIZATION who's looking into additional TRANSFORMATION. That complex TRANSFORMATION need to invest in ORGANIZATIONal CHANGE MAANAGEMENT. Make sure the the users are feel comfortable with the CHANGE, and I are able to use the tools and the PROCESSES more effectively, because even if you implement a NEW SYSTEM with and you don't get that, BUYIN
PARTICIPANT 4 and you don't help them to that CHANGE if they don't use it. Basically your that that TRANSFORMATION is a failure. If they keep going back to the old way of doing things
PARTICIPANT 4 so ORGANIZATIONal CHANGE MAANAGEMENT is, I think, is the number one critical piece for making any TRANSFORMATION SUCCESSFUL.
Unice Harris: Wonderful? Thank you so much. And I tell you what.
Unice Harris: it is amazing how the industry is changing, because.
Unice Harris: you know, there are so many failures. I think.
Unice Harris: In one study there was approximately 900 billion dollars that you know, was lost. Or miss, yeah, lost as as as a result of
Unice Harris: the DIGITAL TRANSFORMATIONs the PROJECT failures. And that's a lot of money, you know. When you can build simple solutions into those PROJECTs. And I can't tell you how many times.
Unice Harris: It's been beneficial for me to be a consultant because I've been able to go to multiple different fortune. 500 fortune, 100 companies, and I've been able to see
Unice Harris: first hand
Unice Harris: how those PROJECTs fail like you. And the city PROJECT.
Unice Harris: I've gone into situations where PEOPLE were just livid, and I've been told, oh, my gosh! We're expected to go live in a week.
Unice Harris: and we've not even been told what the PROJECT is not been trained on it, and we've not tested it, you know. So I've seen situations
Unice Harris: like that. And I've unfortunately
Unice Harris: seen those PROJECTs fail and have had to revise and do them all over again, or rework them into SUCCESSFUL PROJECTs. So.
PARTICIPANT 4 wow, yeah, no, II can totally agree with that, you know. But
PARTICIPANT 4 PEOPLE, you know, if if and that was one of the reason, right? PEOPLE think a, it's a TECHNOLOGY PROJECT, or you know, or you know. Sometimes they think it's a business PROJECT, and they don't put effort in educating and not sharing the why and understanding how you know ORGANIZATIONal CHANGE MAANAGEMENT plays such a huge role in making these PROJECTs SUCCESSFUL?
Unice Harris: Absolutely
well, any questions you have for me. Thank you so much. And just like I expected, your input
Unice Harris: has been invaluable to the study. I appreciate your feedback. I mean, it's just your experiences are just amazing.
Unice Harris: and you really understand the impacts of CHANGE MAANAGEMENT and the shortcomings of not utilizing it to the fullest. So again, I will send you a copy of this conversation. If you want to CHANGE anything, please.
Unice Harris: you know. Send it back to me with any CHANGES. Within 3 days, and then again. I'll send you a copy of the final report as well.
PARTICIPANT 4 Awesome, awesome good luck! Good luck with your doctorate. Thank you so much. I am almost done. I have one class after this and
Unice Harris: I'll be wrapping things up, and I'm hoping that we can work together again sometime in the future. It was again a privilege to have you speak at some of the events. You know the last.
Unice Harris: was it 2, 3 years ago.
Unice Harris: at the local chapter? So, looking forward to the potential of working with you again. Someday. Thank you so much.
PARTICIPANT 5
WEBVTT
TESTING TESTING.
Unice Harris: To him, went right, this is.
PARTICIPANT 5 Hey, Eunice, can you hear me? Okay.
Unice Harris: Yes, I can. Hi! How are you?
Unice Harris: Give me 1 s here.
PARTICIPANT 5 I'm not camera ready. So.
Unice Harris: That's okay.
Unice Harris: it's just voice, anyway.
Unice Harris: How are you.
PARTICIPANT 5 I see you winding down to the finish line.
Unice Harris: Yes, I am. Can you hear me at all?
Unice Harris: Can you hear me at all?
PARTICIPANT 5 Yes, yes.
Unice Harris: Perfect. Okay, good.
Unice Harris: So thank you so much for participating. I I just I had to have you come and give your perspective on things. I.
Unice Harris: What's that? We we last work together? Dst, and what? 2015? Something like that.
PARTICIPANT 5 And it's good.
Unice Harris: One of the things that I was most impressed about you, and I rarely ever see was your ability to connect to PEOPLE that you worked with, and I just don't see that. You know you asked about their children. You asked about their anniversaries, their birthdays, the whole 9, and it was just so impressive to me, you know.
Unice Harris: so thank you again for just joining. And you know, offering your input and
Unice Harris: I'll ask you 9 questions about the BENEFITS of incorporating CHANGE MAANAGEMENT into
Unice Harris: TRANSFORMATION. And that TRANSFORMATION could be a PROCESS CHANGE a procedure CHANGE. I know you've done a lot with PROCESS updates and things, or software updates. It could be
Unice Harris: any of those things. And just walk through the 9 questions. And you just give me your honest and upfront opinion about it and
Unice Harris: and I know you're gonna do that, anyway. So any questions you have for me.
PARTICIPANT 5 No had to.
Unice Harris: Okay, okay, perfect.
PARTICIPANT 5 Clarify the DIGITAL market because a lot of
PARTICIPANT 5 PROCESS improvement endeavors that we went through
PARTICIPANT 5 at at Dsp, when I work there.
PARTICIPANT 5 We're not necessarily DIGITAL.
PARTICIPANT 5 Were, you know, implementing NEW PROCESSES and things like that. But.
PARTICIPANT 5 I should be able to answer your question.
Unice Harris: Okay? Sounds good.
Unice Harris: Let's see. Question number one
Unice Harris: during the initiation or other phase or start of the PROJECT.
Unice Harris: Can you share a time when you communicated the PURPOSE
Unice Harris: of the TRANSFORMATION PROJECT to the ORGANIZATION.
Unice Harris: and how it would enhance or help the ORGANIZATION. So in a nutshell, if you're changing or updating a PROCESS. Was there a time
Unice Harris: when at the start of that you
Unice Harris: communicated the PURPOSE of that PROJECT?
PARTICIPANT 5 Okay, yeah. And
PARTICIPANT 5 I can go back to when I originally
PARTICIPANT 5 starting.
PARTICIPANT 5 Hi, Jacob.
PARTICIPANT 5 and.
Unice Harris: Okay. Awesome.
PARTICIPANT 5 There was a lot of
PARTICIPANT 5 CHANGES that needed to be implemented because it was not a
PARTICIPANT 5 PROJECT oriented environment, but
PARTICIPANT 5 because of some
PARTICIPANT 5 failures. The data center has experienced.
PARTICIPANT 5 We
PARTICIPANT 5 had to do something and PROJECT MAANAGEMENT was what
PARTICIPANT 5 the executives
PARTICIPANT 5 chose to do, and
PARTICIPANT 5 because of my education and background.
PARTICIPANT 5 I was selected to open
PARTICIPANT 5 the PROJECT office environment. And so
PARTICIPANT 5 in that PROCESS.
PARTICIPANT 5 what we ended up doing
PARTICIPANT 5 to market.
PARTICIPANT 5 so to speak.
PARTICIPANT 5 PROJECT MAANAGEMENT.
PARTICIPANT 5 we ended up
PARTICIPANT 5 a
PARTICIPANT 5 creating
PARTICIPANT 5 a brochure.
Unice Harris: Okay.
PARTICIPANT 5 For the PROJECT office environment.
PARTICIPANT 5 And in that, too, it talked about
PARTICIPANT 5 our primary objectives, our PURPOSEs.
PARTICIPANT 5 our services that we offer.
PARTICIPANT 5 and things that we could do to help
PARTICIPANT 5 the company overall, not just
PARTICIPANT 5 the data center. And so
PARTICIPANT 5 that implementation of COMMUNICATIONs
PARTICIPANT 5 was real, effective in getting other
PARTICIPANT 5 areas and DEPARTMENTs to know
PARTICIPANT 5 about what we
PARTICIPANT 5 we're doing, and.
Unice Harris: Isn't it.
PARTICIPANT 5 It kind of grew from there.
Unice Harris: Okay. Awesome. How did you distribute that brochure?
PARTICIPANT 5 We distributed it via EMAIL. And also we hand it
PARTICIPANT 5 them out. We mailed them in our office to
PARTICIPANT 5 other executive managers and DEPARTMENTs.
PARTICIPANT 5 Every opportunity.
PARTICIPANT 5 every opportunity. I've got
PARTICIPANT 5 to give somebody one out
PARTICIPANT 5 always kept it.
PARTICIPANT 5 a few of them with me. I would pass them out.
PARTICIPANT 5 pass them out to TEAM members and
PARTICIPANT 5 PEOPLE that we were working with on PROJECTs.
PARTICIPANT 5 Boot
PARTICIPANT 5 help them get a better understanding of what
PARTICIPANT 5 the PROJECT office, because it was NEW.
PARTICIPANT 5 and they didn't much about PROJECT MAANAGEMENT. And
PARTICIPANT 5 so we F,
PARTICIPANT 5 that's the word out is
PARTICIPANT 5 as much as we could.
PARTICIPANT 5 and the results came in pretty good, because
PARTICIPANT 5 PEOPLE started asking us to run PROJECTs
PARTICIPANT 5 for them and and other DEPARTMENTs.
Unice Harris: No doubt.
Unice Harris: That's really good. Can you do you? And and you may not have a time when you had did this. But
Unice Harris: can you share a time when you did not communicate the PURPOSE of the TRANSFORMATION or the PROJECT.
PARTICIPANT 5 Unice COMMUNICATION was always key.
PARTICIPANT 5 It is ice cream.
PARTICIPANT 5 can't?
PARTICIPANT 5 Well, that effect of COMMUNICATION.
PARTICIPANT 5 You you're not gonna get very, very far.
PARTICIPANT 5 So
PARTICIPANT 5 I spent a majority of my time
PARTICIPANT 5 communicating
PARTICIPANT 5 to PEOPLE trying to get them
PARTICIPANT 5 to see the big picture in the environment that I was in. They didn't have a good understanding of PROJECT MAANAGEMENT and what was supposed to happen.
PARTICIPANT 5 So I was always kind of teaching.
PARTICIPANT 5 as I went
PARTICIPANT 5 to, you know. Bring them
PARTICIPANT 5 communicate to them. You know what we were doing in the PROJECT office?
PARTICIPANT 5 What PROJECT MAANAGEMENT was all about, how those
PARTICIPANT 5 PROJECTs could, how how the PROJECT MAANAGEMENT concept
PARTICIPANT 5 could
PARTICIPANT 5 help
PARTICIPANT 5 the environment and.
Unice Harris: Some words.
Unice Harris: That's really good. Okay.
PARTICIPANT 5 Really.
Unice Harris: Thank you, ma'am. Question number 2 during the requirements or any other phase of DIGITAL TRANSFORMATIONal. Your PROCESS updates, as you mentioned.
Unice Harris: can you share how you inform cross functional TEAMS or the ORGANIZATION as a whole.
Unice Harris: of how the TRANSFORMATION would impact them specifically, and how it would affect or impact or enhance
Unice Harris: how they do their work. And I think you talked a little bit about the brochure
Unice Harris: that you distributed throughout the ORGANIZATION. Can you further expand on that. Did that include the cross functional TEAMS that it would impact and did? Was there a way that you clarified? How it would impact them and CHANGE their work.
PARTICIPANT 5 The
PARTICIPANT 5 the brochure primarily talked about architecture.
PARTICIPANT 5 PROJECT, office, and services that we
PARTICIPANT 5 provided to get PEOPLE acclimated
PARTICIPANT 5 within my TEAM.
PARTICIPANT 5 We did a lot of it was a matrix environment. So we did a lot of possible
PARTICIPANT 5 PROJECT. Then
PARTICIPANT 5 because we
PARTICIPANT 5 of these.
PARTICIPANT 5 we were able to communicate
PARTICIPANT 5 to
PARTICIPANT 5 PEOPLE about the different
PARTICIPANT 5 specific PROJECT.
PARTICIPANT 5 They had a good understanding of what we were doing.
PARTICIPANT 5 I would say
PARTICIPANT 5 within each PROJECT.
PARTICIPANT 5 And so.
PARTICIPANT 5 Though the overall CHANGE of TRANSFORMATION into
PARTICIPANT 5 a PROJECT MAANAGEMENT environment.
PARTICIPANT 5 that kind of caught on
PARTICIPANT 5 as time went up
PARTICIPANT 5 and I kNEW that it caught on.
PARTICIPANT 5 Has
PARTICIPANT 5 PEOPLE
PARTICIPANT 5 began. Other managers and executives
PARTICIPANT 5 begin asking us to do their PROJECTs instead of just
PARTICIPANT 5 giving them giving them to. You know
PARTICIPANT 5 the IT. Text.
Unice Harris: good answer. Okay. Question number 3
Unice Harris: in the design phase, or any other phase before development of the DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION, lifecycle.
Unice Harris: can you share how you provided TRAINING
Unice Harris: relative to the NEW PROCESS or NEW TECHNOLOGY or NEW TRANSFORMATION initiative.
PARTICIPANT 5 Absolutely a part of our both share was TRAINING.
PARTICIPANT 5 And so we have PROJECT MAANAGEMENT TRAINING classes
PARTICIPANT 5 where we, you know, PEOPLE get the phone up for the classes. And then when we first started out, though, I missed the plane
PARTICIPANT 5 bout
PARTICIPANT 5 8 and 800 to a thousand PEOPLE.
PARTICIPANT 5 just
PARTICIPANT 5 PROJECT MAANAGEMENT
PARTICIPANT 5 software SYSTEM
PARTICIPANT 5 and we use their tr time tracking
PARTICIPANT 5 device. And so I train PEOPLE on how to do that. And so in that.
PARTICIPANT 5 we talked about the reasons
PARTICIPANT 5 for the CHANGES
PARTICIPANT 5 of implementing time entry, of implementing PROJECT MAANAGEMENT software, how we were going to be using it throughout the ORGANIZATION.
PARTICIPANT 5 the BENEFITS of it, because a lot of PEOPLE, of course, you know they
PARTICIPANT 5 they think, well, you know, how is this gonna help me?
PARTICIPANT 5 So we need to make sure we address
PARTICIPANT 5 the what's in it for me.
PARTICIPANT 5 part of the of the TRAINING. So yeah, we had. I had
PARTICIPANT 5 yeah, lots of TRAINING classes.
Unice Harris: Awesome that that is so good because
Unice Harris: a lot of times
Unice Harris: you know that that's not included. And PEOPLE are left to, you know, kind of figure it out on their own. So you know, thank you for sharing that, because, you know, we
Unice Harris: we do see a lot of situations where there just is no TRAINING.
Unice Harris: question 4. In the TESTING phase of the TRANSFORMATION lifecycle. Can you share how you tested the NEW TECHNOLOGY or PROCESS.
Unice Harris: like maybe user acceptance, TESTING any other kind of TESTING to confirm that it works the way it should.
PARTICIPANT 5 All.
PARTICIPANT 5 it wasn't like we were designed
PARTICIPANT 5 what it was
PARTICIPANT 5 introducing
PARTICIPANT 5 classes.
PARTICIPANT 5 and sometimes it
PARTICIPANT 5 implementing NEW templates for them that you use for PROJECT MAANAGEMENT.
PARTICIPANT 5 or, you know, allowing providing them with
PARTICIPANT 5 templates to
PARTICIPANT 5 do risk MAANAGEMENT, to define scope of a PROJECT and things like that, a PROJECT charter
PARTICIPANT 5 implementing those things. And so
PARTICIPANT 5 we just gradually added to
PARTICIPANT 5 the PROCESSES over time.
PARTICIPANT 5 Now, as far as TESTING.
PARTICIPANT 5 we didn't like have an actual user test. But
PARTICIPANT 5 I know that it worked because I started.
PARTICIPANT 5 I started seeing the documentation throughout the ORGANIZATION
PARTICIPANT 5 like other PEOPLE outside of PROJECT Office. When they started a PROJECT, they would use the documentation that are the templates that we provided.
Unice Harris: Hope.
PARTICIPANT 5 Part of our service.
Unice Harris: Good. Okay.
Unice Harris: Question number 5 after the rollout into production.
Unice Harris: How are end users, employees and STAKEHOLDERS allowed to offer feedback
Unice Harris: relative to what worked in production and what seemed not to work so smoothly. How did they offer you that feedback, or did they have an opportunity to.
PARTICIPANT 5 Because, you know, when I was
PARTICIPANT 5 would help them by, you know, sending them INFORMATION.
PARTICIPANT 5 Follow up and ask them how how it worked for them. Is there anything that we can CHANGE, or anything that we can
PARTICIPANT 5 do to make it work better for them and things like that?
PARTICIPANT 5 Most of the time, they pretty much accept it.
PARTICIPANT 5 What it. That
PARTICIPANT 5 thing that actually happened was
PARTICIPANT 5 the executive
PARTICIPANT 5 at DST.
PARTICIPANT 5 Started being
PARTICIPANT 5 this documentation.
PARTICIPANT 5 And you know it was really professional. And
PARTICIPANT 5 so they would
PARTICIPANT 5 that you know they're they're staff.
PARTICIPANT 5 Where's the
PARTICIPANT 5 PROJECT planned, I think. Where's the
PARTICIPANT 5 Microsoft PROJECT in?
PARTICIPANT 5 And things like that, you know. Where's this template? Are? You know what's
PARTICIPANT 5 play it?
PARTICIPANT 5 And so they would start asking for it. But in
PARTICIPANT 5 in the TRAINING that I didn't mention was that
PARTICIPANT 5 I had many one on ones with executives down there.
PARTICIPANT 5 They weren't gonna all come to a TRAINING session.
PARTICIPANT 5 I did one on one session and began teaching
PARTICIPANT 5 about PROJECT MAANAGEMENT.
PARTICIPANT 5 So you know what a sponsor's role is, what
PARTICIPANT 5 what role they play in PROJECT MAANAGEMENT, and
PARTICIPANT 5 you know, showing them the importance of the documents that we were using. And so that's going on
PARTICIPANT 5 while
PARTICIPANT 5 for TRAINING for them, and making sure they understood.
PARTICIPANT 5 Work that we.
Unice Harris: That is amazing. Huh?
PARTICIPANT 5 Yeah, I would.
PARTICIPANT 5 It was a battle. I
PARTICIPANT 5 I work probably 80.
PARTICIPANT 5 A lot of those conversations were like after work.
PARTICIPANT 5 after hours.
PARTICIPANT 5 Over dinner, or something like that.
Unice Harris: Wow.
Unice Harris: okay.
Unice Harris: Question number 6, can you share an example of a TRANSFORMATION that went very well?
Unice Harris: Also one that didn't go so very well. And what did you do differently between the 2.
PARTICIPANT 5 Hey? One that went.
PARTICIPANT 5 I would say, was the the setup
PARTICIPANT 5 and the implementation
PARTICIPANT 5 of the PROJECT office environment.
PARTICIPANT 5 which came with the setup of NEW PROCESSES.
PARTICIPANT 5 NEW development of
PARTICIPANT 5 of software implementations. NEW.
PARTICIPANT 5 A NEW way of doing work.
PARTICIPANT 5 I think the PROJECT office environment that we did set up was very effective.
PARTICIPANT 5 and I feel like it was a true SUCCESS.
PARTICIPANT 5 for the ORGANIZATION overall.
Unice Harris: Susan.
PARTICIPANT 5 Add the opportunity to run most of the
PARTICIPANT 5 biggest PROJECTs in the corporation
PARTICIPANT 5 and
PARTICIPANT 5 or well recognized
PARTICIPANT 5 for our work.
PARTICIPANT 5 One thing that didn't go so well early on before.
PARTICIPANT 5 I was educated enough to be
PARTICIPANT 5 a PROJECT manager, I mean a PROJECT a manager in the PROJECT office.
PARTICIPANT 5 early on they brought consultants in.
PARTICIPANT 5 They're
PARTICIPANT 5 help us to develop
PARTICIPANT 5 a PROJECT MAANAGEMENT PROCESS.
PARTICIPANT 5 And we were to come up with a PROCESS for PROJECT MAANAGEMENT.
PARTICIPANT 5 and they came up with this really super long
PARTICIPANT 5 last week came up with this super
PARTICIPANT 5 long PROCESS
PARTICIPANT 5 to implement PROJECT MAANAGEMENT at the data center.
PARTICIPANT 5 And it was so complex
PARTICIPANT 5 that.
PARTICIPANT 5 you know, when we showed it, after 3 months of
PARTICIPANT 5 5 days a week in a room with 12 PEOPLE.
PARTICIPANT 5 yeah. But afterwards
PARTICIPANT 5 nobody used it just
PARTICIPANT 5 and so that was a complete failure.
PARTICIPANT 5 And it was a lessons learned for me. I learned a lot of SYSTEMS out of that
PARTICIPANT 5 12. We are 3 months
PARTICIPANT 5 PROJECT to TRANSFORM PROJECT MAANAGEMENT.
PARTICIPANT 5 And one of the things that I learned was simplify things
PARTICIPANT 5 not to make the PROCESSES overwhelming.
PARTICIPANT 5 so that PEOPLE would look, would look at. It wouldn't look at
PARTICIPANT 5 movement.
PARTICIPANT 5 And that's, you know, kind of what happened. And the difference
PARTICIPANT 5 between the 2, the way that I implemented the PROJECT office environment.
PARTICIPANT 5 Was to simplify things.
Unice Harris: Okay.
Unice Harris: and the path of least resistance. And SIM, the SIM, the simplicity of it.
Unice Harris: Made that PROJECT more SUCCESSFUL is what I think I'm hearing you to say. And then, when you created that Pmo
Unice Harris: and simplified that PROCESS increased throughput, made things easier. Did it subsequently help to increase revenue.
PARTICIPANT 5 Yes, it do, because of some of the PROJECTs that we executed for revenue
PARTICIPANT 5 PROJECT.
PARTICIPANT 5 and we did acquisitions. And you know about that.
PARTICIPANT 5 Yes, he did a lot of acquisitions, and you know that was, you know, how much can we save
PARTICIPANT 5 from this PROJECT? I did a lot of that type of analysis
PARTICIPANT 5 by, when we
PARTICIPANT 5 made it released and
PARTICIPANT 5 providing INFORMATION that
PARTICIPANT 5 we could use to cut
PARTICIPANT 5 the amount of spending we were doing
PARTICIPANT 5 on these accusations, and you know, how can we save money and generate more revenue
PARTICIPANT 5 by acquiring these NEW companies?
PARTICIPANT 5 I did a lot of analysis for that
PARTICIPANT 5 and and we also generated PROCESSES
PARTICIPANT 5 for those NEW client acquisitions.
PARTICIPANT 5 You know. Here's what we'll do
PARTICIPANT 5 when a NEW company comes on. Here's a list of things that
PARTICIPANT 5 are the PROCESSES that we'll do
PARTICIPANT 5 when acquiring.
PARTICIPANT 5 I think by the time that you got there after I left the Sp. And by the time you got there, and I came in as a consultant.
PARTICIPANT 5 That all that INFORMATION was was gone, and none of that.
PARTICIPANT 5 None of those tools were being used.
Unice Harris: Wow?
Unice Harris: Well, and that that makes sense. Because there were there was a lot of
Unice Harris: disorder around that that PROCESS. So
Unice Harris: that makes perfect sense. Let's see.
Unice Harris: question number 7,
Unice Harris: when you created that PROCESS the m and a merges and acquisition that's one of the bigger
Unice Harris: types of TRANSFORMATIONs and innovations that you'll see. Can you share any activity that you took to create a DIGITAL innovation mindset
Unice Harris: within the ORGANIZATION? And did it help or hurt their willingness to CHANGE?
Unice Harris: Or you know how, I guess, how did you create
Unice Harris: an innovation, mindset their willingness to participate in the merger, acquisition, or any other kind of CHANGE.
PARTICIPANT 5 hmm
PARTICIPANT 5 hateful.
Unice Harris: I can just barely hear you.
PARTICIPANT 5 I said, are you talking about
PARTICIPANT 5 company we hired.
PARTICIPANT 5 or you talking about? Dsp.
Unice Harris: Dsc, the in in internal
Unice Harris: employees. Is there some special PROCESS that you use to
Unice Harris: get them more readily? Able to receive the TRANSFORMATION, the CHANGE.
PARTICIPANT 5 from a PROJECT MAANAGEMENT perspective, you know, this week
PARTICIPANT 5 had to.
PARTICIPANT 5 When those PROJECTs came alone they came to our DEPARTMENT.
Unice Harris: And.
PARTICIPANT 5 So when they came along, I was
PARTICIPANT 5 in there at the very, very beginning.
PARTICIPANT 5 And so when
PARTICIPANT 5 we had created those PROCESSES
PARTICIPANT 5 that we would use, you know.
PARTICIPANT 5 in order, you know, from PROJECT Kickoff all the way
PARTICIPANT 5 through, you know, having
PARTICIPANT 5 Microsoft PROJECT, plan, template.
PARTICIPANT 5 and everything that we could not
PARTICIPANT 5 for each client.
PARTICIPANT 5 so that we kNEW exactly
PARTICIPANT 5 how long it would take. Now it was a PROJECT MAANAGEMENT thing
PARTICIPANT 5 that would execute those PROCESS.
PARTICIPANT 5 so there was no need for
PARTICIPANT 5 other like TEAM members or anything to be acclimated
PARTICIPANT 5 to those PROCESSES.
PARTICIPANT 5 because primarily they counted on us as PROJECT managers
PARTICIPANT 5 to make it happen.
Unice Harris: Got it? Okay?
Unice Harris: Question number 8 after the rollout into production?
Unice Harris: How did the TRANSFORMATION give you or the employees and STAKEHOLDERS the results that were expected. So when you rolled out your Pmo. Or your merger and acquisition.
Unice Harris: did the STAKEHOLDERS did the employees get what they expected?
Unice Harris: Or was it something totally different.
PARTICIPANT 5 I think they all got what they.
PARTICIPANT 5 I think I didn't let me be like
PARTICIPANT 5 I think they really didn't know what.
PARTICIPANT 5 The SUCCESSes of PROJECT
PARTICIPANT 5 was a clear indicator that our PROCESSES were work.
PARTICIPANT 5 Because our PROJECT?
PARTICIPANT 5 we
PARTICIPANT 5 the PROJECT office we're in anywhere
PARTICIPANT 5 PROJECTs a year.
PARTICIPANT 5 And during that timeframe
PARTICIPANT 5 our SUCCESS rate was somewhere around 85 to 90%.
Unice Harris: No. BENEFITS.
PARTICIPANT 5 PROJECTs that PROJECTs were executed. There may have been some issues with some PROJECTs.
PARTICIPANT 5 but our PROJECTs
PARTICIPANT 5 generally completed on, on.
PARTICIPANT 5 within budget.
PARTICIPANT 5 and
PARTICIPANT 5 achieve the objectives that we were going.
Unice Harris: You know. And and that's amazing. Dr. Gloria.
Unice Harris: because you don't see that anymore. You don't. You don't see those SUCCESS rates like that anymore. When you say 80%, 90% SUCCESS rate, you know, that's part of the reason why I'm doing my study is because 75% of PROJECTs fail.
Unice Harris: And they continue. And that number keeps going up and up and up and higher. And that's one of the reasons why
Unice Harris: I brought you into the study, because when you created your Pmo you built in certain controls certain measure, certain CHANGE MAANAGEMENT practices that have kind of fallen by the wayside.
Unice Harris: As we progress through the years, and I think that falling by the waste side is contributing immensely to the increase in PROJECT failures.
Unice Harris: So
Unice Harris: it
Unice Harris: go ahead. I'm sorry.
PARTICIPANT 5 Be
PARTICIPANT 5 Tammy
PARTICIPANT 5 planning
PARTICIPANT 5 Dawson.
PARTICIPANT 5 we had
PARTICIPANT 5 planning class
PARTICIPANT 5 and it was 4 weeks long.
PARTICIPANT 5 now, we could start the PROJECT
PARTICIPANT 5 for 4, weeks, we're concentrating
PARTICIPANT 5 on the plane itself
PARTICIPANT 5 a SUCCESSFUL plan
PARTICIPANT 5 campaign for PROJECT usage.
PARTICIPANT 5 Our TEAMS was one of those areas that you
PARTICIPANT 5 didn't hear a lot about
PARTICIPANT 5 PROJECT issues and problems.
PARTICIPANT 5 those PROJECTs that were blowing up.
PARTICIPANT 5 I'll
PARTICIPANT 5 did not come.
PARTICIPANT 5 Did
PARTICIPANT 5 you found it very
PARTICIPANT 5 mad
PARTICIPANT 5 up to speed with the knowledge.
PARTICIPANT 5 manage positive.
PARTICIPANT 5 And we're even gonna
PARTICIPANT 5 PEOPLE by default.
PARTICIPANT 5 But overall.
PARTICIPANT 5 our PROJECTs were SUCCESSFUL because we put in the work
PARTICIPANT 5 wrong.
Unice Harris: well, that makes a huge difference.
Unice Harris: Thank you for sharing that question number 9,
Unice Harris: can you share why you think, CHANGE MAANAGEMENT is important.
Unice Harris: or why you think that it's not important.
PARTICIPANT 5 It is important, because, in order for
PARTICIPANT 5 phase, one of the things that we did was
PARTICIPANT 5 at the end of every PROJECT. We did
PARTICIPANT 5 a
PARTICIPANT 5 lessons learned and be pulled out.
PARTICIPANT 5 things that we could improve upon and documented those things and work on
PARTICIPANT 5 because
PARTICIPANT 5 pages.
PARTICIPANT 5 once they're implemented.
PARTICIPANT 5 things CHANGE over time. And so
PARTICIPANT 5 you think it's important because you want to consistently improve
PARTICIPANT 5 the PROCESSing
PARTICIPANT 5 have in place
PARTICIPANT 5 so they can.
PARTICIPANT 5 you know.
PARTICIPANT 5 are missed, and things like that so
PARTICIPANT 5 have to thank you.
PARTICIPANT 5 Work line
PARTICIPANT 5 those issues that
PARTICIPANT 5 maybe didn't work so well within a PROJECT. What could we
PARTICIPANT 5 to improve upon
PARTICIPANT 5 those PROCESSES? And what things do we need to CHANGE
PARTICIPANT 5 about our PROCESS in order to be better.
Unice Harris: Absolutely, absolutely
Unice Harris: well, that was the last question. And I want to thank you again for
Unice Harris: providing your input and feedback into those questions.
Unice Harris: Your input is invaluable to the PROCESS, and it's gonna go a long ways in terms of
Unice Harris: Allow me to
Unice Harris: document that feedback. So my PROCESS will help, maybe
Unice Harris: help future and current practitioners
Unice Harris: to turn this epic
Unice Harris: amount of fail PROJECTs around. But give me a second. I'm gonna turn off the recording so we can catch up on other areas. 1 s. Here.
PARTICIPANT 6
WEBVTT
PARTICIPANT 6 Hello!
Unice Harris: Hello! Good afternoon.
Unice Harris: Let me make sure that I'm pronouncing your name properly. Dr.
Unice Harris: Ibrahim.
PARTICIPANT 6 Ibrahim
PARTICIPANT 6 Everett, is
PARTICIPANT 6 it
Unice Harris: Okay, perfect. Thank you very much.
PARTICIPANT 6 And and please pronounce your
PARTICIPANT 6 birth, name
PARTICIPANT 6 as well.
Unice Harris: Yes, my name is Eunice Harris.
PARTICIPANT 6 Okay. Thanks. Eunice. Yup.
Unice Harris: Absolutely, so.
PARTICIPANT 6 Appreciate that.
Unice Harris: Thank you so much for agreeing to participate in my study. I look through your amazing qualifications and your experience as a PROJECT manager program manager. And now in education, is invaluable to my study. The study again, is about
Unice Harris: the BENEFITS of incorporating CHANGE MAANAGEMENT into DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION to help to improve
Unice Harris: their SUCCESS and increase revenue. So with this study, I'll ask you 9 questions, and just your candid feedback. With regard to every question is greatly appreciated.
PARTICIPANT 6 Sure. Yeah.
PARTICIPANT 6 Welcome.
Unice Harris: Any questions for me before we get started.
PARTICIPANT 6 No, I heard.
PARTICIPANT 6 We'll get through this, and I'll ask you
PARTICIPANT 6 maybe a question or 2 at the
PARTICIPANT 6 just more about you. And you're there. Yep, please go right ahead.
Unice Harris: Absolutely. So. I will start with question number one
Unice Harris: during the initiation or other phase or start of a PROJECT. Can you share a time
Unice Harris: when you communicated the PURPOSE of the DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION PROJECT to the ORGANIZATION, and how it would enhance or help the ORGANIZATION.
PARTICIPANT 6 Could you ask it again? Please.
Unice Harris: Sure.
Unice Harris: It's basically saying, when you started the PROJECT, can you share a time when you communicated the PURPOSE of the PROJECT
Unice Harris: to the ORGANIZATION. The per, how you or
Unice Harris: can you tell me a time when you communicated the PURPOSE of the PROJECT or program to the ORGANIZATION.
PARTICIPANT 6 Okay, yeah, thank you. And I appreciate you repeating. I just want to make sure I
PARTICIPANT 6 did it properly.
PARTICIPANT 6 what you're describing has been a standard PROCESS
PARTICIPANT 6 for for me, and my efforts.
PARTICIPANT 6 especially around large engagement.
Unice Harris: So thank you.
PARTICIPANT 6 Sometimes join the
PARTICIPANT 6 PROJECT midstream, but in the beginning
PARTICIPANT 6 definitely and at the start of the next phase.
PARTICIPANT 6 engaging with the
PARTICIPANT 6 key STAKEHOLDERS.
PARTICIPANT 6 as many of the leaders in the ORGANIZATION as possible.
PARTICIPANT 6 and describing
PARTICIPANT 6 the BENEFITS of the
PARTICIPANT 6 TRANSFORMATION, the initiative.
PARTICIPANT 6 whether there is certainly has helped it.
PARTICIPANT 6 You could put it in terms of
PARTICIPANT 6 a compelling E or a burning platform.
PARTICIPANT 6 Why are we doing this, and what is in it for you?
PARTICIPANT 6 How do you BENEFIT? How does the ORGANIZATION BENEFIT. That has been a
PARTICIPANT 6 pretty standard
PARTICIPANT 6 PROCESS or
PARTICIPANT 6 most initiatives
PARTICIPANT 6 programs, efforts that I've worked on. And it starts with
PARTICIPANT 6 getting
PARTICIPANT 6 the
PARTICIPANT 6 leadership TEAM on board and
PARTICIPANT 6 trying to
PARTICIPANT 6 have a
PARTICIPANT 6 a CHAMPION
PARTICIPANT 6 from the executive suite. And then throughout the ORGANIZATION.
PARTICIPANT 6 developing those
PARTICIPANT 6 key influencers and the word
PARTICIPANT 6 CHANGE agents within
PARTICIPANT 6 the business unit or the the ORGANIZATION.
Unice Harris: Perfect. Thank you. And how did you communicate? That INFORMATION? Was it
Unice Harris: through
Unice Harris: a MEETING or some other method?
PARTICIPANT 6 It has taken multiple forms.
PARTICIPANT 6 It has
PARTICIPANT 6 been a
PARTICIPANT 6 one large engagement. There were a series of MEETINGS with all the directors
PARTICIPANT 6 and their units in the ORGANIZATION.
PARTICIPANT 6 And so it was a
PARTICIPANT 6 traveling show road. Show, if you will.
PARTICIPANT 6 We went on the road describing why this was important, what it meant to the ORGANIZATION. So there's a presentation that was developed.
PARTICIPANT 6 And we went
PARTICIPANT 6 out and discuss this with
PARTICIPANT 6 each of those business units.
PARTICIPANT 6 In addition, it was
PARTICIPANT 6 the COMMUNICATION that was sent to the entire ORGANIZATION. So there is EMAIL COMMUNICATION with NEWsletter.
PARTICIPANT 6 That was updated frequently there was presentations, or there were presentations that were
PARTICIPANT 6 provided to those directors and leaders of those
PARTICIPANT 6 individual effectively
PARTICIPANT 6 ORGANIZATION. So there was COMMUNICATION across multiple
PARTICIPANT 6 forms or mechanisms.
PARTICIPANT 6 It was a
PARTICIPANT 6 EMAIL. There was NEWsletter. There were target briefings, and there were
PARTICIPANT 6 other types of
PARTICIPANT 6 lunch and learn, so that activities that was done to alert PEOPLE of what was coming down.
Unice Harris: Wonderful. Thank you for sharing that
Unice Harris: when you
Unice Harris: notified the ORGANIZATION of the PURPOSE. Do you feel like it
Unice Harris: minimize confusion about the PURPOSE of the PROJECT.
PARTICIPANT 6 Wild
PARTICIPANT 6 it helped to, but there still was apprehension. Sometimes, if it's a major CHANGE, it may impact
PARTICIPANT 6 employees there.
PARTICIPANT 6 How they perform their work.
PARTICIPANT 6 So it did clearly state work hard to clearly state
PARTICIPANT 6 what is going to CHANGE and what those BENEFITS
PARTICIPANT 6 are going to be and what we're
PARTICIPANT 6 But there's a ongoing effort
PARTICIPANT 6 communicating
PARTICIPANT 6 often
PARTICIPANT 6 and in different forms to
PARTICIPANT 6 assuage any
PARTICIPANT 6 resistance, because
PARTICIPANT 6 but there, there is resistant.
PARTICIPANT 6 as there's a
PARTICIPANT 6 so psychology to CHANGE.
Unice Harris: Absolutely.
PARTICIPANT 6 PEOPLE need to see something, and they
PARTICIPANT 6 they need to be close to it, to be able to feel that it's not going to be a negative. So
PARTICIPANT 6 Dip
PARTICIPANT 6 did help, and it does help. It helped in those cases. But there's still some doubters, and they sayers.
Unice Harris: Absolutely okay.
Unice Harris: Was there a time? And it doesn't have to be
Unice Harris: if there was a time. Can you also share time when you did not communicate the PURPOSE of the TRANSFORMATION, the PURPOSE of PROJECT.
PARTICIPANT 6 No.
Unice Harris: Okay.
PARTICIPANT 6 And I cannot
PARTICIPANT 6 think of a time where
PARTICIPANT 6 it did not do that. Whether it was a major Erp
PARTICIPANT 6 perfect yeah, or
PARTICIPANT 6 other SYSTEM CHANGE.
PARTICIPANT 6 There was
PARTICIPANT 6 always COMMUNICATION
PARTICIPANT 6 with the
PARTICIPANT 6 affected
PARTICIPANT 6 business units
PARTICIPANT 6 or employees that were involved.
Unice Harris: Perfect question. Number 2 during the requirements or other phase of the DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION or PROJECT? Can you share how you informed cross functional TEAMS organ ORGANIZATION as a whole.
Unice Harris: of how the TRANSFORMATION would impact them specifically, and how it would affect
Unice Harris: or enhance how they do their work. So this question is along the lines of
Unice Harris: you know, how did you notify different DEPARTMENTs? And I think you answered that question quite profoundly in the first question. With the traveling road shows the EMAILS, the NEWsletters
Unice Harris: and would you like to further expound on that? And how that communicated to them how it would impact their day to day work.
PARTICIPANT 6 Yes, so
PARTICIPANT 6 just a few other thoughts there for
PARTICIPANT 6 hope.
PARTICIPANT 6 In one instance I was thinking about that.
PARTICIPANT 6 Tried to do this in more than one occasion.
PARTICIPANT 6 we would.
PARTICIPANT 6 demo
PARTICIPANT 6 the
PARTICIPANT 6 propose the
PARTICIPANT 6 SYSTEM.
PARTICIPANT 6 and
PARTICIPANT 6 look at what the business PROCESS is.
PARTICIPANT 6 and the old SYSTEM, and how that would look in the NEW SYSTEM. So
PARTICIPANT 6 type of
PARTICIPANT 6 detailed
PARTICIPANT 6 work, flow.
PARTICIPANT 6 business PROCESS, presentation
PARTICIPANT 6 help. PEOPLE start to see
PARTICIPANT 6 things would CHANGE differently
PARTICIPANT 6 and also
PARTICIPANT 6 also brought in
PARTICIPANT 6 n, some
PARTICIPANT 6 key STAKEHOLDERS to demo.
PARTICIPANT 6 some of the or to review demos of the
PARTICIPANT 6 Nope
PARTICIPANT 6 NEW SYSTEMS.
PARTICIPANT 6 and how that
PARTICIPANT 6 TRANSFORMATION get impact
PARTICIPANT 6 the ORGANIZATION.
PARTICIPANT 6 So, but when it worked. This we had
PARTICIPANT 6 PEOPLE who were key leaders in the ORGANIZATION come in
PARTICIPANT 6 and see
PARTICIPANT 6 what that NEW SYSTEM, how that NEW SYSTEM would look.
PARTICIPANT 6 what those capabilities were.
PARTICIPANT 6 And in other cases
PARTICIPANT 6 we went. When we were developing
PARTICIPANT 6 business PROCESS, he actually went
PARTICIPANT 6 and discuss those
PARTICIPANT 6 business CHANGES with PEOPLE who were closest to the work.
Unice Harris: Okay.
Unice Harris: that's great. The the whole demo concept is innovative. And that that's great. Did, do you feel like it minimized the confusion, and it helped them to understand a little bit more about their workflow.
PARTICIPANT 6 Oh, good.
PARTICIPANT 6 definitely. And we get good feedback on what they
PARTICIPANT 6 digging like, what they like and what they saw as positive. The Demos really help.
PARTICIPANT 6 They were in that
PARTICIPANT 6 schematics help. But then
PARTICIPANT 6 you actually
PARTICIPANT 6 and see
PARTICIPANT 6 a product of TECHNOLOGY
PARTICIPANT 6 that that worked as well.
Unice Harris: It makes me it makes a big difference. Is there a time when
Unice Harris: you didn't inform them of the same.
Unice Harris: and there doesn't have to be.
Unice Harris: but if there is a time, inform them of how would impact their day to day work?
PARTICIPANT 6 No.
Unice Harris: Okay.
PARTICIPANT 6 Always
PARTICIPANT 6 always discuss how the work will CHANGE.
PARTICIPANT 6 That became. And
PARTICIPANT 6 I've done this
PARTICIPANT 6 for a long time
PARTICIPANT 6 across
PARTICIPANT 6 many different platforms, initiatives, DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION and
PARTICIPANT 6 never rolled out anything developed
PARTICIPANT 6 implemented plan without
PARTICIPANT 6 discussing
PARTICIPANT 6 how that would impact
PARTICIPANT 6 the PEOPLE who have.
Unice Harris: Perfect. Thank you.
Unice Harris: Question number 3 in the design phase, or any other phase before development of the DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION lifecycle.
Unice Harris: Can you share how you provide a TRAINING relative to the NEW PROCESS.
Unice Harris: TECHNOLOGY or NEW TRANSFORMATION. Innovation. I know you talked about Demos and that sometimes can be a good method of TRAINING as well. You want it. Further expound on on that concept
Unice Harris: or any other TRAINING that was provided.
PARTICIPANT 6 Oath.
PARTICIPANT 6 Can you hear me, Bill?
Unice Harris: I can hear you now.
PARTICIPANT 6 Hey? Yeah. Sorry.
PARTICIPANT 6 Good thing.
PARTICIPANT 6 sorry I am. Gonna be
PARTICIPANT 6 pressing here, I mean.
PARTICIPANT 6 but I'm
PARTICIPANT 6 fully engage.
Unice Harris: Okay.
Unice Harris: I understand. Multitasking. No worry. Okay, thank you.
PARTICIPANT 6 I mean.
PARTICIPANT 6 and we're about
PARTICIPANT 6 so forming a demo. Could you ask the question again, please? Sorry.
Unice Harris: In the design phase or any other phase before development.
Unice Harris: Can you share
Unice Harris: how you provide a TRAINING relative to the NEW PROCESS or TECHNOLOGY.
PARTICIPANT 6 Oh, yes, yes.
PARTICIPANT 6 good raining.
PARTICIPANT 6 It certainly
PARTICIPANT 6 would be.
PARTICIPANT 6 She had a dedicated TRAINING TEAM.
PARTICIPANT 6 And the
PARTICIPANT 6 that develops
PARTICIPANT 6 TRAINING modules
PARTICIPANT 6 that align with each
PARTICIPANT 6 functional area.
PARTICIPANT 6 So
PARTICIPANT 6 the TRAINING? It's interesting, you said, during the design phase
PARTICIPANT 6 for weeks.
PARTICIPANT 6 the
PARTICIPANT 6 vendor
PARTICIPANT 6 who is usually providing the
PARTICIPANT 6 the product.
PARTICIPANT 6 Would have their TEAM come in and
PARTICIPANT 6 have some high level TRAINING.
PARTICIPANT 6 But the the detailed TRAINING and
PARTICIPANT 6 the approach was
PARTICIPANT 6 often more than once was
PARTICIPANT 6 train the trainer.
PARTICIPANT 6 so train a a cadre of
PARTICIPANT 6 the trainers and and then
PARTICIPANT 6 have
PARTICIPANT 6 TRAINING rolled out over time throughout. So it wasn't just one effort of TRAINING using
PARTICIPANT 6 have been multiple TRAINING. But starting with
PARTICIPANT 6 a a group of supervisory type trainers or or lead trainers who would then provide some additional TRAINING.
PARTICIPANT 6 But if
PARTICIPANT 6 what we found what I have found most effective isn't
PARTICIPANT 6 the knowledge, transfer or acquisition of that skill is more just in time TRAINING
PARTICIPANT 6 close to the actual
PARTICIPANT 6 SYSTEM. Cut over or go live the deployment implementation. While there's TRAINING along an awareness. There is right before
PARTICIPANT 6 going
PARTICIPANT 6 live with the SYSTEM. Then there'd be a additional TRAINING that would have it fresh in the TEAM's mind.
Unice Harris: Oh, that's great! Great, great! Thank you for sharing that.
Unice Harris: Was there a time that you didn't provide TRAINING.
PARTICIPANT 6 Oh.
PARTICIPANT 6 think about that. You'll see there with trade.
PARTICIPANT 6 I can't.
PARTICIPANT 6 Yeah, I can't imagine a time when there wasn't TRAINING
PARTICIPANT 6 sometime
PARTICIPANT 6 it may not have been as expensive.
PARTICIPANT 6 but there's always TRAINING, and
PARTICIPANT 6 sometimes it took different forms. Sometimes it's some
PARTICIPANT 6 self. Serve TRAINING
PARTICIPANT 6 and Bp type
PARTICIPANT 6 TRAINING. It was not always instructor. Led TRAINING.
Unice Harris: Right? Okay, perfect.
Unice Harris: Number 4
Unice Harris: in the TESTING phase.
Unice Harris: can you share how you tested the NEW TECHNOLOGY or PROCESS?
Unice Harris: I I don't know. Maybe a user acceptance test to confirm that it works the way it should or any other kind of TESTING.
PARTICIPANT 6 Oh.
PARTICIPANT 6 yeah.
PARTICIPANT 6 there's always been. I can
PARTICIPANT 6 can't remember
PARTICIPANT 6 a time where we did not go through multiple phasing. May multiple phases
PARTICIPANT 6 TESTING
PARTICIPANT 6 at the
PARTICIPANT 6 at the design.
PARTICIPANT 6 fain.
Unice Harris: Some.
PARTICIPANT 6 Level of
PARTICIPANT 6 unit TESTING. And
PARTICIPANT 6 really, in the
PARTICIPANT 6 agile world. And
PARTICIPANT 6 you've been
PARTICIPANT 6 agile.
PARTICIPANT 6 Type concept
PARTICIPANT 6 have been used for a long time. We would call it
PARTICIPANT 6 rapid deployment. We
PARTICIPANT 6 you have red Chad type sessions that you bring in members of the TEAM.
PARTICIPANT 6 the
PARTICIPANT 6 user community who would participate.
PARTICIPANT 6 It wasn't always called agile bin. But that concept of getting
PARTICIPANT 6 user feedback on the development early on
PARTICIPANT 6 had
PARTICIPANT 6 been something I
PARTICIPANT 6 implemented
PARTICIPANT 6 who are used.
PARTICIPANT 6 deducted for
PARTICIPANT 6 most PROJECTs
PARTICIPANT 6 that
PARTICIPANT 6 unit back
PARTICIPANT 6 TESTING does it work by itself and integration TESTING? Does it work with the other modules and
PARTICIPANT 6 other types of SYSTEM test
PARTICIPANT 6 performance TESTING. All those types of TESTING have been done
PARTICIPANT 6 first definitely, for the most SUCCESSFUL applications have been performed with a a lot of time. Sometimes TESTING gets
PARTICIPANT 6 with.
PARTICIPANT 6 yeah, it like, Oh, wow.
PARTICIPANT 6 you know. Oh, we've got this. We got a 900 test scripts to develop. Who's gonna do that? We have time.
Unice Harris: Still becoming.
PARTICIPANT 6 Becomes this mad scramble. And
PARTICIPANT 6 so.
PARTICIPANT 6 having adequate time for the
PARTICIPANT 6 UAT. Certainly.
PARTICIPANT 6 and
PARTICIPANT 6 in the
PARTICIPANT 6 more traditional predictive model, these stage gate reviews with leadership have occurred and more
PARTICIPANT 6 agile oriented environments and
PARTICIPANT 6 having them
PARTICIPANT 6 retrospective and
PARTICIPANT 6 demo
PARTICIPANT 6 right after a build or sprint, so that kind of
PARTICIPANT 6 user interaction
PARTICIPANT 6 product owner. Interaction
PARTICIPANT 6 has been
PARTICIPANT 6 easy part of the effort. Even with a a
PARTICIPANT 6 SYSTEM that hasn't
PARTICIPANT 6 doesn't require a lot of development. But there is some
PARTICIPANT 6 configuration. Oh, the
PARTICIPANT 6 user community
PARTICIPANT 6 STAKEHOLDERS have typically been part of
PARTICIPANT 6 how the
PARTICIPANT 6 SYSTEM is configured and then TESTING to do
PARTICIPANT 6 perform as
PARTICIPANT 6 designed.
Unice Harris: Great answer. Thank you.
Unice Harris: Question number 5
Unice Harris: after the rollout into production.
Unice Harris: how we're end users, employees, and STAKEHOLDERS allowed to offer feedback relative to what worked in production and what seemed not to work so smoothly.
PARTICIPANT 6 - yeah.
PARTICIPANT 6 So
PARTICIPANT 6 yeah, that is
PARTICIPANT 6 food
PARTICIPANT 6 been ongoing
PARTICIPANT 6 with.
PARTICIPANT 6 I'm thinking of one major effort. But
PARTICIPANT 6 user feedback
PARTICIPANT 6 have been
PARTICIPANT 6 for the best efforts this one in particular would
PARTICIPANT 6 actively solicited.
PARTICIPANT 6 because nothing
PARTICIPANT 6 great, if it works
PARTICIPANT 6 perfectly. But
PARTICIPANT 6 what I've
PARTICIPANT 6 seen and been
PARTICIPANT 6 part of. Now more. When you have a
PARTICIPANT 6 the major deployment released in
PARTICIPANT 6 like how the user
PARTICIPANT 6 feedback and you get the point where the dot releases
PARTICIPANT 6 2.1 2.1 point 2
PARTICIPANT 6 to address some of those bugs
PARTICIPANT 6 or fixes that have have come up.
Unice Harris: It's it's it's so reassuring to hear you talk about
Unice Harris: the 2 dot, one, the 2 dot, 2 to address those post production. Types of issues. Because a lot of times today, you know, they're just rolling these PROJECTs out. And they're not asking for feedback.
Unice Harris: And they're just left, you know, with whatever it is. And so it's just reassuring to hear you say those things. That's the way I've done it.
Unice Harris: And that's the way. I've proven to be SUCCESSFUL at it, but it's not always what you hear. So.
PARTICIPANT 6 Yeah, no, yeah. It's it's good to hear that
PARTICIPANT 6 units that that. How you've done it, certainly. In the best PROJECT that's happened.
PARTICIPANT 6 It happens it comes with a cost.
PARTICIPANT 6 because you have to have either trained staff or access to the vendor, or have built that into the contract, that there'll be that type of
PARTICIPANT 6 ongoing SUPPORT fitness.
PARTICIPANT 6 Not
PARTICIPANT 6 if you don't want to call it additional development that the O. And M. Sustainment part can
PARTICIPANT 6 can be a large part of the cost, as well of the effort.
Unice Harris: Totally. So let me ask you.
Unice Harris: in those PROJECTs where you've conducted the TESTING, conducted the TRAINING advised them of their work roles. In addition to post post production feedback. Ha! Have those PROJECTs eventually
Unice Harris: increase revenue.
PARTICIPANT 6 Hmm
PARTICIPANT 6 up
PARTICIPANT 6 in the
PARTICIPANT 6 and thinking of
PARTICIPANT 6 one case it
PARTICIPANT 6 and I will say, productivity increase.
Unice Harris: Okay.
PARTICIPANT 6 I will. Yes.
PARTICIPANT 6 I'm thinking about the REVENUEcomponent of whether that
PARTICIPANT 6 certainly
PARTICIPANT 6 I'm thinking about what metrics were being used to upset.
PARTICIPANT 6 in one case, yes, REVENUEwas increased
PARTICIPANT 6 in an
PARTICIPANT 6 in another case it was indirectly
PARTICIPANT 6 increase because the
PARTICIPANT 6 key metric
PARTICIPANT 6 weren't necessarily
PARTICIPANT 6 financial.
PARTICIPANT 6 In another case it was. But typically, there's been a an improvement in work. So the indirect is through the increased productivity and the enhanced PROCESS.
PARTICIPANT 6 It's led to.
PARTICIPANT 6 Bob
PARTICIPANT 6 greater
PARTICIPANT 6 revenue.
PARTICIPANT 6 The
PARTICIPANT 6 implementation itself, what may not have been designed for
PARTICIPANT 6 a REVENUEincrease.
PARTICIPANT 6 but through the
PARTICIPANT 6 increased efficiencies, the the PROCESS, improvement, the increased productivity.
PARTICIPANT 6 It led to
PARTICIPANT 6 more CUSTOMER SATISFACTION throughput. Even though that wasn't the
PARTICIPANT 6 the ultimate it wasn't the primary metric that was being addressed.
Unice Harris: Absolutely. Okay. Great great answer. Thank you. Question. Number 6,
Unice Harris: can you share an example of a DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION that went very well? Also one that didn't go very well. And what did you do differently between the 2.
PARTICIPANT 6 One that didn't go well
PARTICIPANT 6 is implementing A.
PARTICIPANT 6 A. Oh.
PARTICIPANT 6 holy
PARTICIPANT 6 8 Pm.
PARTICIPANT 6 Portfolio Program PROJECT MAANAGEMENT SYSTEM for an ORGANIZATION. And it with
PARTICIPANT 6 through. I say it didn't go well
PARTICIPANT 6 it went through 3 iterations
PARTICIPANT 6 before it was implemented.
PARTICIPANT 6 I call that not going well, because had several restarts.
PARTICIPANT 6 And part of it was
PARTICIPANT 6 I leadership SUPPORT?
PARTICIPANT 6 Yes, no. Sorry. I was choosing my first. Yes, sorry pocket was leadership SUPPORT.
PARTICIPANT 6 There was a CHANGE in leadership. It wasn't always that the
PARTICIPANT 6 the TEAM didn't do something well to the
PARTICIPANT 6 implementation of the development TEAM.
PARTICIPANT 6 But there was a CHANGE in leadership direction that impacted that SUCCESS.
PARTICIPANT 6 So there wasn't a commitment
PARTICIPANT 6 as it went from
PARTICIPANT 6 one leadership TEAM to the next.
PARTICIPANT 6 so
PARTICIPANT 6 what was done to help with that is to
PARTICIPANT 6 identify
PARTICIPANT 6 that initiative
PARTICIPANT 6 as a
PARTICIPANT 6 T
PARTICIPANT 6 performance metric
PARTICIPANT 6 for the ORGANIZATION.
PARTICIPANT 6 so that, regardless to who was in the leadership position that they would carry that view forward.
PARTICIPANT 6 Now, of course, you get a NEW leadership TEAM. You get a NEW strategic vision sometimes, but once we identify that as a key area, for the ORGANIZATION had that
PARTICIPANT 6 that type of SUPPORT from the board, then it made it easier for
PARTICIPANT 6 that one to go forward. I
PARTICIPANT 6 I've been in, and I say that was a one that wasn't a SUCCESS. But I've been involved in
PARTICIPANT 6 ORGANIZATIONs where that hasn't happened, where there has been a CHANGE of leadership.
PARTICIPANT 6 and where it
PARTICIPANT 6 the PROJECT just died because it didn't have
PARTICIPANT 6 the the push and the CHAMPIONship from the executive level.
PARTICIPANT 6 I've been, and others that didn't.
PARTICIPANT 6 that didn't go well, another didn't go. Well, it's because of the
PARTICIPANT 6 the TECHNOLOGY
PARTICIPANT 6 was
PARTICIPANT 6 not mature. So we're
PARTICIPANT 6 the ORGANIZATION wasn't
PARTICIPANT 6 the ORGANIZATION
PARTICIPANT 6 maturity with the TECHNOLOGY, those 2 did not match they. The TEAM was not ready.
PARTICIPANT 6 So it wasn't that the TECHNOLOGY wasn't right. I misspoke. It's that the ORGANIZATION wasn't ready, mature enough
PARTICIPANT 6 to for this adoption. So
PARTICIPANT 6 the effort was a little ahead of where it should be. The the
PARTICIPANT 6 ORGANIZATION should have been
PARTICIPANT 6 prep
PARTICIPANT 6 sooner
PARTICIPANT 6 longer
PARTICIPANT 6 for the implementation.
PARTICIPANT 6 And so that's a lesson learned.
PARTICIPANT 6 and always
PARTICIPANT 6 get the field ready. Get the before engaging in the effort.
Unice Harris: Absolutely. And that that happens a lot. You know, you can't just throw out TECHNOLOGY when
Unice Harris: everybody that's using the TECHNOLOGY is not ready for it. There, could there? There's oftentimes TECHNOLOGY and culture or corporation mix mismatch
Unice Harris: which leads to question number 7.
Unice Harris: Those types of situations. Can you share any activity that you would that you've taken to create a more DIGITAL innovation mindset within the ORGANIZATION. Has it helped or hurt their willingness to CHANGE.
PARTICIPANT 6 Hmm, yeah, that's a good question.
PARTICIPANT 6 And you started to touch on it
PARTICIPANT 6 when you mentioned culture.
PARTICIPANT 6 And.
PARTICIPANT 6 as many of us know, cultured trump strategy
PARTICIPANT 6 anywhere all the time. So
PARTICIPANT 6 it's one
PARTICIPANT 6 but
PARTICIPANT 6 learning the culture and establishing these early
PARTICIPANT 6 modules, I'll call them learning modules for the ORGANIZATION.
PARTICIPANT 6 To
PARTICIPANT 6 prep the feel for what's coming
PARTICIPANT 6 that
PARTICIPANT 6 that takes time and it for one case
PARTICIPANT 6 out.
PARTICIPANT 6 We worked on this effort
PARTICIPANT 6 for
PARTICIPANT 6 a better part of a year
PARTICIPANT 6 going around
PARTICIPANT 6 the world, literally.
PARTICIPANT 6 literally around the world.
PARTICIPANT 6 discussing
PARTICIPANT 6 what's coming
PARTICIPANT 6 that
PARTICIPANT 6 everyone needs to
PARTICIPANT 6 be prepared for the shift.
PARTICIPANT 6 We're going to be retiring the legacy SYSTEM. It was a whole
PARTICIPANT 6 series of events
PARTICIPANT 6 to
PARTICIPANT 6 get the
PARTICIPANT 6 use, a community.
PARTICIPANT 6 if not comfortable.
PARTICIPANT 6 certainly aware that
PARTICIPANT 6 CHANGE is coming so in this instance that I'm I'm talking about
PARTICIPANT 6 if a few PEOPLE got antsy, well, okay. But others then became excited. Well, when's it? Gonna get here. We started hearing that in the environment and that let the leadership know that.
PARTICIPANT 6 hey, this is time to to move forward. There's
PARTICIPANT 6 certainly there's a developmental timeframe of
PARTICIPANT 6 you could just slam it and jam it in regardless. And PEOPLE gotta get ready for it.
PARTICIPANT 6 But this effort it was
PARTICIPANT 6 a different type of environment. They had more time. So there was a TEAM that was in place that was doing that
PARTICIPANT 6 that building effort, so that
PARTICIPANT 6 when it was time to actually start the
PARTICIPANT 6 the program, the PROJECT that they
PARTICIPANT 6 became ready. So it was a
PARTICIPANT 6 really a lot of field work, a lot of
PARTICIPANT 6 INFORMATION sharing awareness and
PARTICIPANT 6 trying to assuage PEOPLE that
PARTICIPANT 6 CHANGES
PARTICIPANT 6 is coming. And it's
PARTICIPANT 6 not gonna be as
PARTICIPANT 6 disruptive as they might think. So.
Unice Harris: Great answer. Thank you. Question number 8
Unice Harris: after the rollout into production.
Unice Harris: How did the TRANSFORMATION, or did the TRANSFORMATION give you or the employees and STAKEHOLDERS the results that were expected.
Unice Harris: and if not, share and listen, learn.
PARTICIPANT 6 With so many examples. I'm thinking of
PARTICIPANT 6 So bear with me. Most
PARTICIPANT 6 have worked and have
PARTICIPANT 6 form
PARTICIPANT 6 at least
PARTICIPANT 6 with most BENEFIT
PARTICIPANT 6 who.
PARTICIPANT 6 I'm thinking so
Unice Harris: I can take your time.
PARTICIPANT 6 Deliver. Yes, that did not deliver as indicated. That's what we didn't get. The results.
Unice Harris: Well, actually.
Unice Harris: so it's
Unice Harris: hey? I I'm asking after the rollout into production. How did it give you or the employees and STAKEHOLDERS the results that were expected.
Unice Harris: You know, when you finish that PROJECT.
Unice Harris: Did it go as you expected? Did it deliver what you wanted it to deliver? Did? Were the STAKEHOLDER satisfied? Did they get what they wanted initially from the PROJECT.
PARTICIPANT 6 Oh.
PARTICIPANT 6 yeah, you know, I I mentioned the one
PARTICIPANT 6 that have the multiple
PARTICIPANT 6 starts
PARTICIPANT 6 that one. Eventually
PARTICIPANT 6 it performed well. But there was a related one where
PARTICIPANT 6 the NEW TECHNOLOGY. Let me, yeah, let me there. The NEW TECHNOLOGY, NEW SYSTEM
PARTICIPANT 6 did not. I'm thinking of one most have have gone well, because it's sort but one where it didn't
PARTICIPANT 6 it didn't deliver.
PARTICIPANT 6 because there was another
PARTICIPANT 6 SYSTEM that was being used for
PARTICIPANT 6 HR.
PARTICIPANT 6 And that that that Hr. SYSTEM.
Unice Harris: Hmm.
PARTICIPANT 6 had a capability
PARTICIPANT 6 that vendor had a capability in that SYSTEM that could have SUPPORTed
PARTICIPANT 6 the other component.
PARTICIPANT 6 And
PARTICIPANT 6 there was some
PARTICIPANT 6 buyers remote.
Unice Harris: Oh, gotcha
PARTICIPANT 6 That. Oh, we could have used this other module of
PARTICIPANT 6 for capability functionality from the Hr.
PARTICIPANT 6 vendor.
PARTICIPANT 6 They had it similar. So
PARTICIPANT 6 while it it worked. Well, there was that
PARTICIPANT 6 how
PARTICIPANT 6 buyers remorse, as I'm saying, where
PARTICIPANT 6 they
PARTICIPANT 6 are now thinking about
PARTICIPANT 6 implementing the
PARTICIPANT 6 other capability from the Hr SYSTEM. So while it works. But
PARTICIPANT 6 they've spent money on implementing it.
PARTICIPANT 6 And now they are
PARTICIPANT 6 thinking about gaining some other efficiencies
PARTICIPANT 6 through
PARTICIPANT 6 the
PARTICIPANT 6 internal integration of that Hr vendor product. So.
PARTICIPANT 6 Yeah, and that kind of trade off analysis was
PARTICIPANT 6 discuss initially, but they made a different decision, and
PARTICIPANT 6 and then regretted it a little bit.
Unice Harris: Understood
Unice Harris: understood. And you always have that. You. Sometimes you get into those situations where
Unice Harris: you know there's buyers remorse, who they want something different than what they think they want. And
Unice Harris: then they're dissatisfied with the selection that they make. So you know you, you get into that sometimes, and then a lot of times they know early on.
Unice Harris: They've gained the clarity that they need early on, and so they feel confident, and they can do it themselves. I I got what I need, this little tidbit of INFORMATION or this little tidbit of help, so I can do it myself. And then they suffer the consequences, or they suffer loss.
Unice Harris: and they have to come back and say, Oh, I really don't really know as much as I thought I kNEW, and I need your help with this.
PARTICIPANT 6 Please come back? Yes, for sure.
PARTICIPANT 6 And the.
Unice Harris: I get it? Last question.
Unice Harris: can you share why you think CHANGE MAANAGEMENT is important or not important, and when we say CHANGE MAANAGEMENT. We mean COMMUNICATION. All the things that we've talked about COMMUNICATION. TRAINING.
PARTICIPANT 6 TRAINING. Yeah, sorry.
PARTICIPANT 6 Yes, I'm I'm
PARTICIPANT 6 part of the choir. Yeah, I'm I'm with you on that.
PARTICIPANT 6 But
PARTICIPANT 6 the initiative
PARTICIPANT 6 it
PARTICIPANT 6 I started to be very definitive. I'll just state it like that. Initiative won't be as SUCCESSFUL
PARTICIPANT 6 started to say, won't be SUCCESSFUL. It won't be as SUCCESSFUL sorry
PARTICIPANT 6 it can be most SUCCESSFUL
PARTICIPANT 6 with a robust Ocm effort. ORGANIZATIONal CHANGE MAANAGEMENT
PARTICIPANT 6 is an essential component
PARTICIPANT 6 of
PARTICIPANT 6 be
PARTICIPANT 6 DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION, the implementation, the SYSTEM enhancement, all of that.
PARTICIPANT 6 And I say that having worked across multiple programs and PROJECTs
PARTICIPANT 6 where
PARTICIPANT 6 developing those
PARTICIPANT 6 CHANGE agents in the ORGANIZATION or identifying them.
PARTICIPANT 6 having those
PARTICIPANT 6 sessions where
PARTICIPANT 6 the user community feels comfortable.
PARTICIPANT 6 With the CHANGE, or at least knowledgeable where they see how it impacts their work and what's in it for them.
PARTICIPANT 6 Those kinds of efforts
PARTICIPANT 6 make the
PARTICIPANT 6 TECHNOLOGY CHANGE
PARTICIPANT 6 more palatable.
PARTICIPANT 6 Obviously, PEOPLE have to get used to different SYSTEMS, different look and feel.
PARTICIPANT 6 but engaging those PEOPLE who are closest to the work, who have their hands on the keyboard, who look at the screen, getting their feedback early in the PROCESS.
PARTICIPANT 6 Is essential for the SUCCESS of the operation. In addition with that type of COMMUNICATION that you mentioned, where there's a ongoing discussion from
PARTICIPANT 6 leadership, but also others in the ORGANIZATION
PARTICIPANT 6 can then serve as
PARTICIPANT 6 a
PARTICIPANT 6 influencer. I use that term earlier. Who can
PARTICIPANT 6 share the goodness that is coming. I I don't see how it works without it matter of fact, when it. When that doesn't happen.
PARTICIPANT 6 I think you get pushback and you get disgruntled employees and some environments may not care. And they say, Well, you gotta do this anyway. This is now your job, and this is the SYSTEM that we have the best run companies, the best implementation, engage the employees, engage leadership through multiple levels of the ORGANIZATION and
PARTICIPANT 6 are always
PARTICIPANT 6 communicating with them that what's happening so that there's
PARTICIPANT 6 less of a culture shock.
Unice Harris: absolutely, absolutely. Thank you very much. I,
Unice Harris: see that a lot. I
Unice Harris: have consulted for many many years, with multiple different ORGANIZATIONs, and
Unice Harris: what comes to mind is
Unice Harris: an ORGANIZATION I was working with, and they were big on agile. They brought me in to
Unice Harris: shore up their Pmo or redesign their Pmo. Because they had implemented everything with agile, every single PROJECT with agile, and
Unice Harris: something happened with 2 of their big government and banking SYSTEM clients
Unice Harris: the I think it was health and human services came in, and they wanted to know why something some big
Unice Harris: criteria or government mandate was not met, and all they had was a backlog and some scripts. You know, they didn't have a charter. They didn't have a design development document. They there was no way for them to trace that.
Unice Harris: You know what what happened
Unice Harris: and why that government mandate wasn't met because they didn't have any type of structure other than just the backlog and the spritz. So they dive right in
Unice Harris: and it was oh, it was. It was a heinous situation. So and then another one. The sec came in. It was a big financial regulated ORGANIZATION, and they had fines.
Unice Harris: because of some criteria or regulation hadn't been met from a financial standpoint, and then all they had was again the backlog and some sprints and the release schedule and they didn't have the nuts and the bolts. They didn't have the requirements document
Unice Harris: to say, Okay, where this requirement come from, you know. So we're able to trace back what the requirement were. So we can identify what we missed and why these
Unice Harris: Government mandates were not met. So
Unice Harris: they brought me in to
Unice Harris: revise their Pmo.
Unice Harris: And I was able to
Unice Harris: let them keep the agile PROCESS, but to build in some additional structure to it, so that for those PROJECTs where that are heavily regulated. They have that CHANGE MAANAGEMENT component in there where they're telling them. Here are the requirements. Here's the PROJECT. Charter. Here's the TRAINING here all these things, so that
Unice Harris: if something happens on the back end where a customer's financial accounts are impacted, you're able to go back and say, Oh, we missed this at the requirements. It was never in the design document, you know, as opposed to just having a backlog and some sprints.
Unice Harris: you know. So it's it's wonderful that you're able to say that. You know Ocm is an essential component, because you know, most of my PROJECTs.
Unice Harris: have succeeded where I've been able to build
Unice Harris: that component into it. So yeah, any questions.
PARTICIPANT 6 Yeah.
Unice Harris: For me, or the study in general.
PARTICIPANT 6 Yeah, no, thank you. And thank you for sharing a little bit about your background. I just wanted to know a little bit more about
PARTICIPANT 6 you, how you got to it, what!
PARTICIPANT 6 What is motivating you towards your your study? And
PARTICIPANT 6 where are you?
PARTICIPANT 6 Just?
PARTICIPANT 6 Who is Eunice? Please.
Unice Harris: Absolutely so. I have been a certified PROJECT manager for since 2,005 I started my career at a company called Honeywell.
Unice Harris: and.
PARTICIPANT 6 Yeah.
Unice Harris: Yep and they were. I was on the home security side.
Unice Harris: and we were on this nationwide implementation. I was early in my twenties. Excited traveling all over the world. And at that time I was a software conversion specialist.
Unice Harris: And when the PROJECT started to go over budget.
Unice Harris: I started thinking, wow, there has to be a better way to do this. And it seemed like their PROJECT manager program managers. They were all over the place, not structured not really following the budget. There were multiple different things that I noticed. And I said, Well, I can do better. I think I could do better as a Pm.
Unice Harris: so then I start looking into PROJECT MAANAGEMENT and program MAANAGEMENT. And then I took I start taking classes, and then getting those positions as Pm. And then I took my Pmp certification in 2,005 and
Unice Harris: moved into the PROJECT MAANAGEMENT space, then into the program MAANAGEMENT space then into the Pmo officer space. And you know, now I'm a Vp over a Pmo for a small ORGANIZATION. And what I'm seeing within the industry is disturbing. Per se you know, I did the research investigation. And I know that more than 70
Unice Harris: of the DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION PROJECTs. They're failing
Unice Harris: and a lot of money is being lost. Based upon, you know.
Unice Harris: partially because we're not building in the CHANGE MAANAGEMENT.
Unice Harris: we're rolling out
Unice Harris: NEW TECHNOLOGY. And I'll use this as an example. In 2,020, I believe.
Unice Harris: I was working on a particular health related PROJECT, and it was an important thing.
Unice Harris: and they rolled out this PROJECT, and they brought me in to fix the, to fix the madness
Unice Harris: and
Unice Harris: When I got in, the
Unice Harris: workers were livid.
Unice Harris: they were furious. The STAKEHOLDERS were furious. And they were basically saying.
Unice Harris: they push this TECHNOLOGY onto us. Our customers are suffering because we don't know how to use this TECHNOLOGY. They asked us to test the TECHNOLOGY and train on it. But we don't even know anything about the TECHNOLOGY, and that was foreign to me.
Unice Harris: That that was I did not know
Unice Harris: that anyone
PARTICIPANT 6 ORGANIZATIONs are doing that. Huh? Yeah.
Unice Harris: I had never seen it before.
PARTICIPANT 6 Figure it out.
Unice Harris: Exactly. And that's what they did. They rolled out this TECHNOLOGY. They spent
Unice Harris: 17 million dollars on this TECHNOLOGY and they just rolled it out, and they were failing miserably because their end users didn't know how to use the TECHNOLOGY. So when their customers came, called in to get assistance, their end. Users were scrambling on the phone trying to figure out how to use the TECHNOLOGY. And it just didn't click to them. Hey, you've gotta train them on how to use this before you just roll it out.
PARTICIPANT 6 Wow, yeah.
Unice Harris: So.
PARTICIPANT 6 Just switching gears. I cause I know you you may. I don't know if you have other interviews or your time you guys allotted, and I know you're still recording. But please why, Cappella.
Unice Harris: But you know
Unice Harris: that's a good question.
Unice Harris: I am busy. I have a really really busy schedule. And I thought, Wow, someone that I kNEW was working on a degree from Capella, and
Unice Harris: I looked into it. I took the program. I compared its
Unice Harris: and Mba program and its doctorate program to all the leading schools.
Unice Harris: I compared it to Stanford. I compared it to other major schools.
Unice Harris: and it was comparable. The only difference is that Cappella was online, and that was a better option for me as opposed to going and sitting in a classroom.
Unice Harris: So that was my deciding factor. One. It was accredited to. The curriculum was just as competitive as the 3 or 4 major schools that I compared it to.
Unice Harris: So.
PARTICIPANT 6 Yeah, gotcha, yeah. And.
Unice Harris: I'm not at all disappointed.
PARTICIPANT 6 That's what I was gonna say, and how have you enjoyed it? So it sounds like you do. But good, yeah.
Unice Harris: And let me get us off. This recording hang on 1 s.
Participant 7
WEBVTT
Unice Harris: Good afternoon.
PARTICIPANT 7Can you hear me?
Unice Harris: Yeah, I can hear you.
PARTICIPANT 7Okay, perfect.
Unice Harris: Thank you for joining Myra. I appreciate your input into the study.
Unice Harris: and I know you have so much experience. I just thought, oh, I can't wait to hear her answers to some of these questions. I know your
Unice Harris: experience and expertise will be invaluable to the study.
Unice Harris: Any questions before I get started.
PARTICIPANT 7No, I did have opportunity to kind of look over some of the questions. So I am. I'm ready. I'll just rely solely on your experience and
PARTICIPANT 7how things have transpired for me into the DIGITAL world.
Unice Harris: Sounds good. Just give me your honest experience and opinions on each of the questions that, and that's it. So I'll just go ahead and start with question number one during the initiation or other phase or start of the PROJECT. Can you share time when you communicate the PURPOSE of the TRANSFORMATION PROJECT to the ORGANIZATION, and how it would enhance or help the ORGANIZATION.
PARTICIPANT 7Okay?
PARTICIPANT 7well, there was one time when I actually, I'll use implementing salesforce.
PARTICIPANT 7As an example I shared. How
PARTICIPANT 7That CHANGE could the company could capitalize off of
PARTICIPANT 7implementing salesforce.
Unice Harris: With.
PARTICIPANT 7All the salesforce has, like a DIGITAL journey that helps you
PARTICIPANT 7electronically, send out
PARTICIPANT 7reminders. Or, for instance, I'll use the example of someone given birth.
PARTICIPANT 7It gives. It'll trigger EMAILS at certain points for to send to the the parents certain phases of their
PARTICIPANT 7pregnancy. So I like to use that as an example. Analogy that I share with the company. This is how we can bring about the CHANGE using salesforce. I know the company tried to implement it, for, like 5 years prior to me, coming on board.
Unice Harris: Okay.
PARTICIPANT 7So there was a lot of resistance there.
PARTICIPANT 7But when I when I was trying to share the BENEFITS of it.
PARTICIPANT 7There was resistance, but again, like I was sharing some of the BENEFITS to that would be. No one has to remember to send it out in the first trimester to send an EMAIL out to the in the first trimester, or the second, or the third. This is part of the journey that's already
PARTICIPANT 7pre triggered at a certain time. It's scheduled to go out to the parents and say, Hey, this is the phase that you're in, and these are the things that you are experiencing? Are you prepared for? You know certain items?
PARTICIPANT 7Do you have certain items? And are you prepared for this phase? And it'll provide a list of items that the parents will need during this time. So as I was explaining that to the company, the TEAM STAKEHOLDERS that needed to make the decision whether we were moving forward with it.
PARTICIPANT 7There was some resistance.
PARTICIPANT 7because
PARTICIPANT 7again, CHANGE. You know, everyone's not
PARTICIPANT 7happy about CHANGE, and it had been like I said they had tried to implement it for 5 years, and it was unSUCCESSFUL. So
PARTICIPANT 7we were trying to figure out.
PARTICIPANT 7You know how to persuade everyone to get on board to try it. One more time.
Unice Harris: So,
PARTICIPANT 7I think.
Unice Harris: How did you communicate that to everyone? Was it? What what mo or media did you use to communicate all of that.
PARTICIPANT 7So I actually
PARTICIPANT 7had the company come in and actually
PARTICIPANT 7do a presentation for us and show us how we can. They did. This was all
PARTICIPANT 7DIGITAL. They were showing us how it would play out
PARTICIPANT 7and they went through their total app through the salesforce app to share. This is how it will work.
PARTICIPANT 7And I think that was a big part in persuing
PARTICIPANT 7the others, because they were able to see the whole journey. It was like a
PARTICIPANT 7a diagram with each
PARTICIPANT 7phase, and what was going to take place, and how we get triggered. So I think that was the persuasion place. So we had the internal MEETING. First. I share what
PARTICIPANT 7Salesforce had shared with me, and that I wanted to bring them in and have them do a presentation
PARTICIPANT 7for the TEAM. And so that's how we were able to get
PARTICIPANT 7get the TEAM to BUYINto it, at least to look at it.
Unice Harris: Okay, and there doesn't have to be a time. But I'm gonna ask you, anyway, can you can you share a time
Unice Harris: when you didn't communicate the PURPOSE of the TRANSFORMATION. Again, there doesn't have to be a time, but if there was a time, can you share.
PARTICIPANT 7I can't think of one where I didn't communicate right off the top. But as we go through the interview, if anything comes back to me from my early stages. Then I will
PARTICIPANT 7come back to it.
Unice Harris: With the heck.
Unice Harris: Okay, perfect. Thank you for sharing that. Question. Number 2
Unice Harris: during the requirements or any other phase of the DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION. Can you share how you informed cross functional TEAMS or the ORGANIZATION as a whole.
Unice Harris: of how the TRANSFORMATION would impact them specifically.
Unice Harris: and how it would impact, or affect
Unice Harris: or enhance the way they do their work.
PARTICIPANT 7So just overall. I think there was a time.
PARTICIPANT 7and this is probably I'll use the same example, because this is very challenging.
PARTICIPANT 7But there was a time. Part of implementing salesforce. You have to
PARTICIPANT 7enter the data. You have to load the data 14 weeks
PARTICIPANT 7prior to use.
PARTICIPANT 7because so this I guess, this goes back to a time where it was missed, where we
PARTICIPANT 7did not communicate effectively that we had. There was a 14 week
PARTICIPANT 7requirement to have the data loaded. So that goes back to
Unice Harris: The question.
PARTICIPANT 7That I was trying to think about. So because it's a hard requirement with salesforce that they need the data in 14 weeks.
PARTICIPANT 7We did not want to wait 14 weeks to figure out that. Okay, the data could be loaded. Good. And maybe it's not so what my recommendation was. Let's proceed with loading the data.
PARTICIPANT 7Let's act as if anything. There, we don't. Don't have anything wrong with the data. It's all correct.
PARTICIPANT 7If we do not find
PARTICIPANT 7any major
PARTICIPANT 7issues, we'll go ahead and move forward with the implementation.
PARTICIPANT 7and if we do find.
PARTICIPANT 7you know a flaw, but it's not really a show stopper. Then we would
PARTICIPANT 7implement a phase 2
PARTICIPANT 7because we don't wanna sit around talking our thumbs, or, you know, TESTING, waiting for Qa. To finish before TEAM weeks and then figure out, oh, there's nothing wrong. So we proceeded to implement as if the data was loaded correctly that we were not gonna have any issues.
PARTICIPANT 7and we had a hard stop we were going with. We had what was called open season, so we had a hard stop in October, and I think we started this in January, but there were certain other requirements that needed to be completed
PARTICIPANT 7prior to
PARTICIPANT 7the Qa TESTING. So we had to move forward with what is called a happy path, like everything's gonna work correctly.
PARTICIPANT 7We didn't know it, but the way that I continue to share with them.
PARTICIPANT 7even if we don't
PARTICIPANT 7move forward with it. Then we're just sitting there, and we will not be able to use it for open season.
PARTICIPANT 7So. But we just had to weigh the outcome. Is it gone to?
PARTICIPANT 7Which way is gonna be? It's going to impact the company most. If we sit there and wait, do nothing, or if we move forward as if everything works.
PARTICIPANT 7and we plan to have a phase 2.
PARTICIPANT 7If there are no major
PARTICIPANT 7defects in which I got all the STAKEHOLDERS to BUYINto moving forward. So we didn't move forward. We didn't have any major issues. We had a couple like, you know, nice 2 halves.
PARTICIPANT 7Which we're not show stoppers. So we move forward with the implementation
PARTICIPANT 7and like, I said, they tried to get this implemented in like 4 or 5 years before, and we were able to get it implemented within a year. But we move forward with noted risk.
Unice Harris: Okay.
Unice Harris: and you were able to get the shareholders on board.
Unice Harris: when that tool salesforce did it impact multiple different DEPARTMENTs? Or did it? Just were you rolling it out? For just one DEPARTMENT? And then, if you were rolling it out where it impacted multiple different DEPARTMENTs.
Unice Harris: was there ever a COMMUNICATION like right upfront at the start on how it would BENEFIT them, or did salesforce when you brought them into the ORGANIZATION? Did they clarify how how it would BENEFIT each of the ORGANIZATIONs, each of the DEPARTMENTs.
PARTICIPANT 7Yes, so it more so BENEFITed the marketing group.
PARTICIPANT 7but because the marketing group
PARTICIPANT 7was
PARTICIPANT 7SUPPORTed by so many other ORGANIZATIONs across
PARTICIPANT 7cross functional.
PARTICIPANT 7We didn't realize that until salesforce came in and actually did their demo.
PARTICIPANT 7How many DEPARTMENTs were impacted. So we did have to start pulling different DEPARTMENTs in once we had already start the PROCESS. So I think that's kinda answering your question, too. We were impacted other groups, but they were not notified at the beginning, but we were able to pull them in in time, where they could still tell us
PARTICIPANT 7what some of their requirements were.
Unice Harris: Okay, follow that.
PARTICIPANT 7Before we were too deep into the
PARTICIPANT 7implementation.
Unice Harris: Okay, okay.
Unice Harris: question number 3 in the design phase or any other phase before development of the DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION lifecycle. Can you share how you provide a TRAINING
Unice Harris: relative to the NEW PROCESS, TECHNOLOGY or NEW TRANSFORMATION.
PARTICIPANT 7Yes, so we did start
PARTICIPANT 7bringing in salesforce. So part of
PARTICIPANT 7where what they offer was TRAINING on their tools, what to expect how to use them. They work with the development TEAM.
PARTICIPANT 7There work. They worked with our business analyst.
PARTICIPANT 7And
PARTICIPANT 7just basically on how the function is gonna work, what needs to any prerequisites
PARTICIPANT 7that needed to be in place for the development TEAM.
PARTICIPANT 7so I think that was the the TRAINING that was needed to get everyone on board. They were.
PARTICIPANT 7They kNEW these things ahead of time, and then, once it was implemented.
PARTICIPANT 7the salesforce TEAM still stayed, involved for a certain period of time to make sure, and worked alongside of our developers in the business to make sure that we had a smooth transition into production.
Unice Harris: Okay? And do you feel like that minimize confusion about how the solution would impact or CHANGE how they worked.
PARTICIPANT 7Absolutely. And we would have multiple MEETINGS, weekly MEETINGS, sometimes more than once,
PARTICIPANT 7to ensure that
PARTICIPANT 7all all the data was implemented correctly and
PARTICIPANT 7The TEAMS were trained.
PARTICIPANT 7so it definitely made a difference.
Unice Harris: Okay.
PARTICIPANT 7And minimize the impact.
Unice Harris: Can you share a time when you didn't provide any TRAINING at all?
Unice Harris: It doesn't have.
PARTICIPANT 7It would be.
Unice Harris: Yeah, time. But if there is a time, can you share.
PARTICIPANT 7No, I always. I'm pretty sure that we always provided TRAINING because the CHANGE is already difficult for individuals. So I can't think of a time where TRAINING was not provided.
Unice Harris: Okay?
Unice Harris: Good, perfect.
Unice Harris: question. Number 4 in the TESTING phase of the TRANSFORMATION lifecycle. Can you share how you tested the NEW TECHNOLOGY or PROCESS.
PARTICIPANT 7Yeah, sure. So the Qa TEAM would work with. We started bringing because I have a Qa background as well. I realize that we have to bring the Qa TEAM in actually, early at the beginning versus the end, because they actually
PARTICIPANT 7can see
PARTICIPANT 7or no SYSTEMS that are being hit, and how the whole PROCESS works, so they can kind of tell us
PARTICIPANT 7where the checks and balances need to be.
PARTICIPANT 7So we would create journeys to
PARTICIPANT 7test, and, you know, write scripts cases
PARTICIPANT 7to actually make sure the journeys were hitting each
PARTICIPANT 7space that they needed to hit and test
PARTICIPANT 7and make sure our our trigger event at a certain point.
PARTICIPANT 7So they would write test cases to make sure if you know
PARTICIPANT 7if it's at 3 months, which EMAIL is being sent out if it. You know.
PARTICIPANT 7for instance, this is kind of tragic. But if is this? The pregnancy was terminated, or for whatever reason, maybe the mom lost the baby that we would not continue to send
PARTICIPANT 7those EMAILS and reminders of certain things. So all of that was part of the test. But those are test cases, and those test cases were all usually put in Jira and
PARTICIPANT 7converted over.
Unice Harris: That's okay.
Unice Harris: So that's good. Because you know you you wouldn't want a situation where
Unice Harris: that would be very traumatizing to have someone to lose their child, and then get an EMAIL, you know.
PARTICIPANT 7Yeah, my members.
Unice Harris: So.
PARTICIPANT 7And see, those are things that are automatically
PARTICIPANT 7communicated with the DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION. No. One has to remember the
PARTICIPANT 7with everything being digitized is gonna automatically pick up
PARTICIPANT 7that it was terminated so, and that the medical records are there too. They're connected with all of the journey that's being sent out to the parents. So that makes a big difference. There's less room for era.
PARTICIPANT 7Yep.
Unice Harris: I agree?
Unice Harris: and you may not have one. But can you also share a time where you didn't test a SYSTEM or a NEW TRANSFORMATION?
PARTICIPANT 7Yeah. So there's times. Because if
PARTICIPANT 7you know, for well, maybe PEOPLE don't know, but usually TESTING is always the one that has less time. You say you need 2 months. You probably would be good to get, you know, to get half of that time. So TESTING is always shortened. You just document
PARTICIPANT 7depending on what it is because
PARTICIPANT 7a lot of times you have to go to market pretty quick. Everything is a race to market to be the first.
PARTICIPANT 7So you document pretty early and share. You know these are the risks that we're gonna take, and then the STAKEHOLDERS will try to, or you will try to get the STAKEHOLDERS to BUYIN to say, we're just gonna test at this level, and then we'll go back and continue TESTING so most of the part, most of the time you hit
PARTICIPANT 7the things that you want to ensure is working. That is a show stopper, you know there's a lot of want to have.
PARTICIPANT 7but then there are must haves as well, so as long as the must haves are working, then sometimes you can get the STAKEHOLDERS to.
PARTICIPANT 7Agree
PARTICIPANT 7to go back and continue TESTING on the once. Nice to have rather.
Unice Harris: And do you feel like that? Minimize confusion? Because sometimes
Unice Harris: in in today's landscape, you know you. You see those like you said first to market. Is important to everyone, until PEOPLE just kind of throw things out there, and then figure out that it doesn't work when, after it's blown up, and the customer is losing money. So in your.
PARTICIPANT 7Okay.
Unice Harris: When you implemented the test, did you feel like it helped the implementation. And did it minimize confusion about you know how things should work.
PARTICIPANT 7I do. I feel like it definitely minimized it. And I feel like, because we have been down or the company had been down that road so many times that they were more apt to follow and listen to what the Qa. TEAM was saying has to be tested. So I think that minimized a lot of the
PARTICIPANT 7stress and anxiety and
PARTICIPANT 7just gave them opportunity to say, Okay, if we listen in, we
PARTICIPANT 7test this, these must have. Then we will come out on the other side. It's less likely that we'll come out with any issues at the end of the implementation.
Unice Harris: Okay?
Unice Harris: Question number 5
Unice Harris: after the rollout into production. How were end users, employees, or STAKEHOLDERS allowed to offer feedback
Unice Harris: relative to what worked in production, and what seemed not to work so smoothly.
PARTICIPANT 7Yeah. So that's a good question. We would actually do a debrief after we're after the implementation. Immediately, you know, when we implement into production.
PARTICIPANT 7The business would test, and Qa TEAM would be their TESTING. And just make sure that the functionality is
PARTICIPANT 7working as designed. So once we say, okay, it's working as designed. But then we would like to have. That's when we would have the next call or MEETING which would debrief about what could we do different? What do we want to CHANGE? And that's where we would start making
PARTICIPANT 7NEW making plans to implement those CHANGES. So that kind of would be our phase 2. But at that time they'll have opportunity to say, Yeah, this is what the requirement was. But this is what we really meant. And this is what we would like to hide. So at that point we can make any CHANGES form in the next phase.
Unice Harris: Okay. And then, after you receive that feedback from them, did it seem like they were more receptive to CHANGE or hesitant to CHANGE, and did the PROJECT eventually increase revenue.
PARTICIPANT 7I do feel like they were more receptive to CHANGE at that point.
PARTICIPANT 7They were definitely on board with the CHANGE they have moved from the being
PARTICIPANT 7in denial and having the anxiety of CHANGE, and not being familiar with it, not knowing if they're gonna know how to
PARTICIPANT 7worked with salesforce. They had moved into that acceptance phase.
PARTICIPANT 7And
PARTICIPANT 7they could see, okay, this is working so much better. It's making our work life so much easier. So they definitely were receptive to it.
PARTICIPANT 7and in reference to REVENUEI do believe that it increased the revenue. It made an easier transition for us to market to our customers
PARTICIPANT 7and share with them. You know how we're
PARTICIPANT 7being, how we care and extending that empathy to them. And then they're getting all of these EMAILS automatically, you know. So it it
PARTICIPANT 7it makes it look like we really care which companies do care. That's whole PURPOSE of being in the healthcare industry. But we want to make sure that the customers feel like that. They are that we're listening to them and hearing what they have to say in the CHANGES. So I definitely think it INCREASED REVENUEbecause we were able to win over more customers as well.
Unice Harris: Okay, that makes perfect sense.
Unice Harris: Question number 6, can you share an example of a DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION that went very well? Also, one that didn't go so very well. And what did you do differently between the 2.
PARTICIPANT 7Okay? So I think Salesforce went very well for me. I think that was a win definitely a win win, because again.
PARTICIPANT 7They had tried to implement it for 4 to 5 years. I was able to implement it in less than a year, and was up and ready for open season, so that went really well.
PARTICIPANT 7One that didn't go so well is with another company that I was with, and we were implementing a financial package.
PARTICIPANT 7and there was a glitch in the SYSTEM. For instance.
PARTICIPANT 7the Federal Reserve.
PARTICIPANT 7as
PARTICIPANT 7when PEOPLE write a check or
PARTICIPANT 7well, yeah, it's basically when they write a check, the Federal Reserve has to clear within, like they have 60 s to clear whether the check is gonna be there. And there was a glitch in the SYSTEM that no one
PARTICIPANT 7capture
PARTICIPANT 7and depending on who you're asking and how they're calculating. It was a 50 billion dollar glitch
PARTICIPANT 7Which caught the attention of
PARTICIPANT 7the chairman.
PARTICIPANT 7and that if something like that was to happen again, that a lot of PEOPLE would have lost their jobs.
PARTICIPANT 7So that was the time where it just didn't go well at all. And actually I was brought in to make sure that that didn't happen again and
PARTICIPANT 7implemented. A mitigation plan to actually
PARTICIPANT 7prevent that from happening again with the Qa
PARTICIPANT 7SYSTEM with the way that they would Qa or test
PARTICIPANT 7before going into production.
PARTICIPANT 7Okay.
Unice Harris: With that 50 billion dollars. That's a lot of money.
PARTICIPANT 7Afternoon.
Unice Harris: When you went in after that issue, were they more receptive to CHANGE or more hesitant to CHANGE.
PARTICIPANT 7Very receptive. There were a lot of jobs on the line. PEOPLE's livelihoods were on the line, so they were eager to make that CHANGE and
PARTICIPANT 7put in gate stops to make sure it didn't happen again.
Unice Harris: Okay, okay, question number 7, can you share any activity that you've taken to create a more DIGITAL innovation mindset within the ORGANIZATION.
PARTICIPANT 7Yes. So I think again that part goes back to
PARTICIPANT 7kind of recently, when I first took on. So I work with salesforce at my previous job. And now salesforce is my customer at my current position.
PARTICIPANT 7and you can imagine it's constant CHANGE, because
PARTICIPANT 7it's basically a marketing company. All the EMAILS we get about, you know, sales and things that's all salesforce. So all the PEOPLE don't like to use the word spam. But all the spam that we get that's salesforce. So
PARTICIPANT 7for me, going in holding everyone accountable. And you know, putting in stops and
PARTICIPANT 7agree into things upfront with the customer. You know. How do we want these things to work, I think, is good. Originally they were resistant CHANGE. Some of the CHANGES to that. I wanted to put in place but as their customer SUCCESS account manager.
PARTICIPANT 7and the recommendations that I was making, I think they became very receptive to, because it holds everyone accountable. So I think that made a huge difference in how we approach the issues that we were facing in reference to the applications that they have in place, and all the tools and subscriptions that they're using.
Unice Harris: Okay.
Unice Harris: that's good. You have some very interesting experiences.
Unice Harris: Question number 8 after the rollout into production.
Unice Harris: How did the TRANSFORMATION give you or the employees and STAKEHOLDERS the results that they were expecting for your salesforce implementation for the
Unice Harris: banking implementation that we had to come in. They've been trying to implement this thing for 5 years, and then, with your banking situation, they've lost billions of dollars after you went in and rolled it out into production?
Unice Harris: Did it give them what they wanted?
PARTICIPANT 7Absolutely in both cases. So I'll start with the Federal Reserve.
PARTICIPANT 7it actually gave them the results. They wanted one. It wasn't clear
PARTICIPANT 7who the third party vendor or the in-house Qa. TEAM, who was TESTING what?
PARTICIPANT 7Who was
PARTICIPANT 7even coding for in reference to the development TEAM. The requirements were not clear. So.
PARTICIPANT 7after going in and
PARTICIPANT 7getting clarity on all these things in the implementation.
PARTICIPANT 7we were able to
PARTICIPANT 7see the difference. We seen the difference in how things were working.
PARTICIPANT 7so after that I feel like
PARTICIPANT 7there was
PARTICIPANT 7no loss of revenue. So of course, the REVENUEincreased, the profit increased. With the Federal Reserve, so that definitely, I would definitely say that was good there, good progression, and likewise with salesforce. And that's still in progress. We just implemented some additional subscriptions. Mark subscriptions.
PARTICIPANT 7So it's definitely working for them. Their whole PROCESS is that it's just on a upwards trajectory. So
PARTICIPANT 7I've really had SUCCESS with this customer.
Unice Harris: Okay, good, awesome.
Unice Harris: When I say CHANGE MAANAGEMENT.
Unice Harris: I'm referring to everything that we just talked about, you know, letting them know. Letting the entire ORGANIZATION know early. Like what you did.
Unice Harris: talking to the STAKEHOLDERS. Conducting the TRAINING, conducting the TESTING, conducting the post rollout COMMUNICATION sharing. That's what we refer to by CHANGE MAANAGEMENT. So with that being said, can you share? Why, you think that CHANGE MAANAGEMENT is important or not important.
PARTICIPANT 7I feel like it's important cause, you're actually managing the ORGANIZATIONal overall TRANSFORMATION, with the in the form of PEOPLE, their PROCESSES
PARTICIPANT 7required enable measurables. You know. How are you measuring this significant CHANGE?
PARTICIPANT 7PEOPLE are reluctant to but what is it that? What's your goal? And how are you defining SUCCESS? So, knowing all those things upfront and checking those boxes out is how I feel like
PARTICIPANT 7we manage that CHANGE. And then it's all in the mindset of the individual. So CHANGE MAANAGEMENT to me is changing the mind of the PEOPLE.
PARTICIPANT 7So, and it's a PROCESS and getting PEOPLE to CHANGE their mind, because for one, they're stuck in the way that they know things, they're stuck there. So the previous position that I held
PARTICIPANT 7my recommendation was that we implement a CHANGE MAANAGEMENT TEAM.
PARTICIPANT 7Because we need the CHANGE MAANAGEMENT TEAM to go and socialize.
PARTICIPANT 7What CHANGE is
PARTICIPANT 7the PROCESS of the CHANGE.
Unice Harris: Right.
PARTICIPANT 7To get PEOPLE on board. So that's how I feel like
PARTICIPANT 7we were able. I've been able to get the significant CHANGE that we need
PARTICIPANT 7for PEOPLE to BUYINto the program.
PARTICIPANT 7And I think I answered your question, but if not, tell me what else you need on that one.
Unice Harris: I think you've answered that. That I appreciate. You know you're taking the time to be a part of this session and like, I said, I kNEW that you had a wealth of experience. Because you've been
Unice Harris: in the space for a long time. And it's just again an honor to have you offer your feedback into the study. There's a lot going on within this TRANSFORMATION space. And you know, we see we're seeing that
Unice Harris: you know, 70%
Unice Harris: or more of the TRANSFORMATIONs are failing. And you know, one of the things that we're seeing is that
Unice Harris: hesitance to CHANGE is a lot, a big part of that you know.
Unice Harris: percentage.
Unice Harris: So how to do everything in this study to identify the BENEFITS of incorporating CHANGE MAANAGEMENT into the study so that you don't just roll out the TECHNOLOGY and then have the end user. Say, what is this doing? What what am I supposed to do with this? And then you have the end? Customers and end users impacted by
Unice Harris: the negative aspects of it. So thank you so much for participating. Let me get
Unice Harris: stop the recording, and then we can kind of talk a little bit more about things. Hold on.
PARTICIPANT 8
WEBVTT
Unice Harris: Hello.
Unice Harris: Mr. Participant 8, are you here.
Unice Harris: Mr. Participant 8? Are you here?
PARTICIPANT 8 Yes. Hi, Miss Harris, how are you doing.
Unice Harris: I'm good. Thank you so much for agreeing to participate in my study.
Unice Harris: I am so excited to have you join
Unice Harris: and I'm also excited to see the young PEOPLE like yourself getting prepared to take over this industry when the older ones of us get ready to retire. I think you're. You've been a certified scrum, master since you were 21 years old, and you're getting ready to graduate from college this year, and that's just very, very exciting to see.
Unice Harris: I look forward to hearing you answer the questions. You have a wealth of experience behind you already, and I'm just
Unice Harris: I just wanna thank you again for agreeing to participate in the study.
PARTICIPANT 8 Yes, ma'am, of course the pleasure is all mine. Thank you for inviting me to
PARTICIPANT 8 participate in this study with you. You know. Obviously, I know your background. You know you've been doing this for
PARTICIPANT 8 for a very long time. And you know you being one of the top professors in this field is just. It means everything for me, as a young, you know, up, up and coming.
PARTICIPANT 8 You know. Yeah, up and coming guide just be able to learn more from you and kind of just learn from
PARTICIPANT 8 your wealth of experience. And then, hopefully, I can take something from this session, and use it to better myself in the future.
Unice Harris: Wonderful. So with that being said, I will just go ahead and get started.
Unice Harris: Just answer the questions. As you've
Unice Harris: feel as you deem appropriate. There's no right or wrong answer. Just pull from your experiences. Whether it be DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION on the basketball court. DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION and ORGANIZATION. However, you want to. Add or include feel free to just express your experiences. So question number one
Unice Harris: during the initiation or other phase, or just the start of a PROJECT?
Unice Harris: Can you share a time when you communicated the PURPOSE of the TRANSFORMATION PROJECT to the ORGANIZATION and
Unice Harris: just how it would enhance or help.
PARTICIPANT 8 You
PARTICIPANT 8 absolutely. So
PARTICIPANT 8 Few years ago we actually took a high school
PARTICIPANT 8 a high school basketball TEAM. We gifted them. Our. our initial SYSTEM shot tracker. Shot tracker at first was.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, I mean, we we were kind of just now getting our name out there. We had kind of been developing the PROJECT in secret for like quite some time, you know, the guys, Bruce Ianni and David on Ross began to kind of
PARTICIPANT 8 took me under their wing
PARTICIPANT 8 when I was younger, and just kinda showed me the ropes in the business and kinda helped me. You know, I learned so much things about just developing and
PARTICIPANT 8 everything like that. But that's beside the point. Honestly.
PARTICIPANT 8 what we did was our pitch was basically, Hey, you know we can help you guys make your lives easier.
PARTICIPANT 8 Everybody knows basketball. You have to keep stats. You have to keep track. You had to pay PEOPLE to do those things. Not every high school can afford that.
PARTICIPANT 8 So we just we. We installed our SYSTEM in the roof of the gymnasium. We had. Each player have
PARTICIPANT 8 their own personal shot tracker. We call them biscuits. They're like really, really small squares, and they have inside them all the motion sensor motion detective TECHNOLOGY off our patented TECHNOLOGY. And at first the guys were kind of looking at us kind of like cause they never seen it before. I mean, when you're playing basketball. Typically all you need is a ball, a hoop, and a couple of jerseys. But
PARTICIPANT 8 you know for us we had to explain to them, hey, this can keep your stats in real time.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know. So this is literally a SYSTEM that can
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, as you snap your finger
PARTICIPANT 8 and let the ball go
PARTICIPANT 8 from. When it goes through the net it can keep track of your makes misses. How many assist you have, etc. So once we kind of told them that we kind of gave them a run through, let them test it out, showed them some live footage of
PARTICIPANT 8 the app actually tracks the live movements of the game.
PARTICIPANT 8 It was, you know, the guys are pretty. So thought it was pretty cool. So we just had to kind of explain it to them a little bit and get them to wrap their mind around what exactly it was and where the BENEFIT was, gonna be for them.
Unice Harris: Wonderful. Thank you for sharing that. That's a good. That's a good analogy.
Unice Harris: Because you you talk to them about the BENEFITS of having that. And boy, that's innovation on 10. That. That's amazing.
Unice Harris: So question number 2, during the requirements or other phase of the TRANSFORMATION. Can you share how you informed cross functional TEAMS as a whole of how the TRANSFORMATION would impact them specifically, and how it would affect or impact or enhance how they do their work, and I think you already answered that
PARTICIPANT 8 Well, yeah, but I can elaborate on that. If you would like me to.
Unice Harris: Yes, please.
PARTICIPANT 8 Well, I mean, so, okay, basically. So shot tracker in this. How I explain to them, shot tracker is a 2 piece bluetooth, low energy. Wearable device.
PARTICIPANT 8 It tracks the motion of the basketball players risk and the impact of the ball in the net.
PARTICIPANT 8 The wrist biscuit is inside of a sweat bend or spandex sleeve. You can put it inside your sock. It just it's it just depends on the person you can put it anywhere
PARTICIPANT 8 the other sensor attaches to the net.
PARTICIPANT 8 and it detects when the basketball hits it.
PARTICIPANT 8 Now we also have sensors in the in the ceiling that have cameras.
PARTICIPANT 8 and we did not add those until later, because initially.
PARTICIPANT 8 in our first go around, we had. We had quite a few bugs, quite a few issues with the ball not being able to be tracked.
PARTICIPANT 8 sometimes, you know during the practices there might be only 5 or 10 players on the court, but there are players standing around the court as well, so we kinda had to put cameras to get a better map of the court overall, and kinda so, you know, make some boundaries DIGITALly. So the shot tracker device, if a player stepped outside, those boundaries would not count their stats or points, is being invalid. So
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, those are just a few of the hiccups that we ran into, and you know it was pretty.
PARTICIPANT 8 It was pretty open. I mean, we're a small TEAM here.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, only about 15 PEOPLE, you know, in our building. So the development it guys, those guys are right there. I mean, you know, we're we're literally all working next to. I'm not gonna say work on top of you. So we're working right next. So you know, it's nothing to. There's a basketball court that we usually, you know, the guys usually play a pick up things after lunch or at the end of the day. So we typically get all of our stuff out. After that, you know, play a pick up game, and then
PARTICIPANT 8 just kind of sit down to those guys and just openly communicate what needs to be better. And I feel like that's one of the main reasons why
PARTICIPANT 8 we've been able to move into so many different schools.
PARTICIPANT 8 High school, college and professionally is because we just have such a
PARTICIPANT 8 such an open COMMUNICATION around here. You don't have to jump through hoops to get things done.
Unice Harris: Right. Thank you for that.
Unice Harris: Has there ever been a time where you didn't inform them of the same where you just rolled out a PROJECT. Didn't tell anybody didn't inform them of the BENEFITS, or
Unice Harris: and there doesn't have to be. But has there ever been a time.
PARTICIPANT 8 I can't say I mean, and and it
PARTICIPANT 8 our pitch has definitely CHANGEd over the years.
PARTICIPANT 8 but I feel like that's just normal evolution of the company we've never really had. I'm sorry I can't really provide an example. We've never really had a time where we just rolled it out on someone I mean, you know, genuinely, genuinely, PEOPLE want to know.
PARTICIPANT 8 kind of like what they're getting into, because it costs for us to set this up additionally to like.
PARTICIPANT 8 because this type of product we have, they're really, you know, you kind of don't just roll it out.
PARTICIPANT 8 You kind of have to explain. You know what's going on, what what the basis of everything is, and then you kind of have to see, you know, get PEOPLE to
PARTICIPANT 8 understand how it BENEFITS them cause at first, you know, you tell someone you wanna come in install cameras and install sensors. They don't really understand why they've ever seen that before, and then we pull up Nba footage and footers of Olympian guys TRAINING in our facilities. And you know, just showing that we're trusted, you know, worldwide among the elite, the most elite athletes in the world. And then PEOPLE kind of start to see the vision.
PARTICIPANT 8 I will say this when we did roll it out the first time in our first school we did it for free.
PARTICIPANT 8 so that that that would be an explanation kind of a example of maybe a time. We didn't really reveal as much INFORMATION, but that was more so because we were still in our early phase. We wanted to see what worked and what didn't work. So we we yeah. So we didn't really have as many details to guarantee. Or.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, we just kind of had to
PARTICIPANT 8 roll the ball and go.
Unice Harris: Okay. Question number 3, and thank you for clarifying that in the design phase, or any other phase before development of the TRANSFORMATION. Can you share how you provide a TRAINING relative to the NEW PROCESS TECHNOLOGY or the initiative.
PARTICIPANT 8 Well,
PARTICIPANT 8 that's a good question.
PARTICIPANT 8 Provided TRAINING
PARTICIPANT 8 for me, you know, being an athlete myself.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, during that time
PARTICIPANT 8 a lot of times. I will be the one when we went to schools to demonstrate the the shot track. We would just take the 2 piece Kit which you which is also available for purchase. Anyone can use that. It does not matter if you have, you know, driveway basketball. Anyone can use that. But we would just, you know, I would just put the little
PARTICIPANT 8 the sleeve on, and we would use a ladder and connect the sentence to the net, and I would just show kids in real time. I always just I let them watch me.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, go through a shooting workout, or if the TEAM had a player that was really interested in basketball and plan. You know, the next level. I would take him through a shooting workout.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, and just kinda let him see, you know. Hey, man, you know you can use the gun, you know. Dr. Dish, those are really popular alternatives. But, man, this right here lets you do anything anywhere, anytime. It's portable, and you can keep your stats on on your phone.
PARTICIPANT 8 And I just think that when they see it, you know they can hear about it. But when they see it.
PARTICIPANT 8 and they and they see how it works. And they see how much better it's gonna get them, how easy it's gonna be to to to shoot and get your percentages without having to keep track of the score in your head. I mean, we all forget
PARTICIPANT 8 how many jumpers we make after a certain time, especially when you're like me. You're shooting 5 or 600 of them in a session.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know. This is like for high volume trainers. And when we, when PEOPLE see that they wanna be associated with other high volume workers like.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know. At least she was like Ray out, and Stephan Curry, Kaiya, and PEOPLE who use this SYSTEM, you know, and it kind of just it sells itself. Really, you know, the the the TRAINING
PARTICIPANT 8 sells itself.
Unice Harris: Or may.
PARTICIPANT 8 So.
Unice Harris: That's an amazing product. And you are very lucky to have had the opportunity to participate in it. On the ground level when they were just rolling it out. You mentioned that the first few were rolled out for free. And you mentioned that you guys put them through TRAINING, and so on and so forth, did the PROJECT eventually increase revenue.
PARTICIPANT 8 Absolutely, I mean, and it. And it took it took a while. I mean, I'm not. Gonna I'm not gonna act like it was just right away. We had a lot of issues. At first we had a lot of issues. We had to iron out we went a lot of different ways about it, you know. For a while we had a shot tracker, basketball. Actually, it was our own. It was a sporting. Tf, 1, 50.
PARTICIPANT 8 Which is the official ball for the High School level, and I believe, for the Nai level.
PARTICIPANT 8 we actually
PARTICIPANT 8 but patent
PARTICIPANT 8 to get a modified version
PARTICIPANT 8 of that ball made in our factory where we get the same materials. But we would put the shot tracker TECHNOLOGY inside of a ball. And this is. And we did this in an effort to make it easier for shot tracker to be used on a cord in a real game. In real time the ball moves and it can track DIGITALly
PARTICIPANT 8 in real time where the ball is moving
PARTICIPANT 8 from player to player, from player to hoop. So.
PARTICIPANT 8 though those were one of the innovations that we kind of had to
PARTICIPANT 8 that we came across during the PROCESS. And I feel like when we kind of mastered that. And we got multiple patents and multiple companies were allowing us to use their basketballs like Spalding, Wilson, Rawlings, and we were able to reach multiple markets. Nikey was another notable net. Not notable member.
PARTICIPANT 8 Once we got that REVENUEstarted to pick up, because now you've got more schools interested, whereas before. We didn't have the Nike pad. So Nike schools they use Nike basketballs. They wear Nike shoes. They wear everything Nike, everything's Nike. They they wouldn't. They weren't interested because we we couldn't. We couldn't put the TECHNOLOGY in the basketballs.
PARTICIPANT 8 Once we got that that opened up a door to a plethora of other. You know, high level division, one of the schools, and even elite level high schools that are that are sponsored by these these big shoe companies.
Unice Harris: Thank you for sharing that
Unice Harris: in the TESTING phase
Unice Harris: of a TRANSFORMATION. Can you share how you tested the NEW TECHNOLOGY or the PROCESS, and I think you talked about that a little bit, too. But can you elaborate a little bit on how you tested it before.
PARTICIPANT 8 Senior.
PARTICIPANT 8 Oh, I'm sorry, doctor. I'm sorry.
Unice Harris: Oh, no! No! Go ahead!
PARTICIPANT 8 Okay, yeah, absolutely.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, TESTING phase,
PARTICIPANT 8 and I mean, you're right. I kind of already touched on it. It
PARTICIPANT 8 realistically. We just used to hoop.
PARTICIPANT 8 If I'm being completely honest with you, we would just get out there like I said, we have a really small TEAM. We have about 15 PEOPLE at the time. We had about 10 to 15 PEOPLE.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, and and and and early on, it was really closer to around 7 or 8,
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, so we would just get out there, man, like we have a basketball court right in the back of the facility.
PARTICIPANT 8 And man it was. It was literally, you know, tech fresh out of the box. We get our shipment in. And they man, we were kinda just we were on the court, you know, right away we were on the court the next day or that day TESTING the product. You know, you got guys shorts, Participant 8 tops, you know 10 shoes walking around the office
PARTICIPANT 8 because this is really what we do. I mean, we weren't just playing ball. We were really, we're really having to test we, and we have to play in order to. In order to thoroughly test the product we have to play and thoroughly test with players of that caliber. So we would have pros come in and work out for us. We would have professionals come in and play, pick up games. We had high school guys, elite level guys come in and do workouts and play games with this.
PARTICIPANT 8 You know, kind of just to get a feel. You know, we wanted to get
PARTICIPANT 8 a couple of Nba guys opinions on how the basketball, you know, cause these are the guys that have to play with these balls. You know, we're we're designing them. These guys gotta go out there when they're sweaty when they're tired, you know, and they have to perform with these basketballs. And honestly, you know if you're a hooper. Every Hooper knows man. A basketball, a good basketball makes a difference, you know it really does is like a good pair of shoes.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, it's gonna make all the difference and how your game is played so that we can get these basketballs as close to possible as what they really like with our TECHNOLOGY in them.
PARTICIPANT 8 You know that that that would be that would be beneficial. But yeah, just to keep it short, the only way we really test was just by action. We just had to get out there and try. And then, if it didn't work, we just had to try something else. Go back to the drawing board, but we just had to get out there and and and try. You know
PARTICIPANT 8 ourselves.
Unice Harris: Thank you for sharing that
Unice Harris: question. Number 5, after you rolled it out into production?
Unice Harris: How were
Unice Harris: the users allowed to offer feedback relative to what worked and what did not work.
PARTICIPANT 8 Okay. So so
PARTICIPANT 8 that's a really good question.
PARTICIPANT 8 You know the owners, Bruce Bruce Ianni, man, he he was really influential in this. He was really, really
PARTICIPANT 8 a fan of constructive criticism. You don't see that too often, you know. Normally, the boss doesn't want to be told.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, kind of like what's going on. They don't really want to be. They don't really want to be back a any any backtop.
PARTICIPANT 8 That's how I would say it. They're kind of like man, you know. This is my deal. I've already done the thinking for you. I don't need you to think. Just do it
PARTICIPANT 8 and then I feel like that's like, was progress. A lot of times he was the complete opposite. He was looking for feedback anywhere he could find me, and you know that includes us coaches, players, you know. He would stop by monthly.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, sometimes weekly in the beginning, just to kind of check out practice. He might come at the end of practice to ask the guys, man, how'd that ball feel, you know? Can you see yourself playing with it? Is it bounce free? Is it shooting? Funny, you know. Are? Are the sensors working you are? Are you? Are you having a heart? Is it? Is it weighing you down?
PARTICIPANT 8 Do we need to get a lighter chip, you know? Do we need to look at some wristband? Shoot a sleeve? I mean, it was just, you know, just constant questions and feedback. And then.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, he was always, you know, he gave us, you know, gave all the guys his phone number. Personal phone number.
PARTICIPANT 8 You know. Call him anytime. Send him the text anytime. If he doesn't answer. And you know, just let him know. Hey, this is something I think you guys can do better. And we took those suggestions and we ran with it
PARTICIPANT 8 additionally, additionally, yeah.
PARTICIPANT 8 Being such open COMMUNICATION in the office.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know you can walk into this office. And hey, Bruce, man, I have thought I have an idea.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know. Hey, boost, man, I was. I was playing the other day, and this happened. You know the whole. The whole thing is, he wants PEOPLE who are gonna use the software so they can test it. He doesn't want to get the software and just sit on it. He wants PEOPLE, his employees perfectly to be active
PARTICIPANT 8 users of the product. So I use the product daily, and I let him know feedback daily.
PARTICIPANT 8 So.
Unice Harris: Good. Okay, thank you for that. Thank you for sharing that. That's amazing.
Unice Harris: question. Number 6, and you may not have any PROJECTs that went poorly. But can you share an example of a TRANSFORMATION that went very well also one that didn't go very well. And what did you do differently between the 2, and I think you shared about the shot tracker. That seemed to have gone very well. Is there anything that, or any one PROJECT that didn't go very well. And again you don't.
PARTICIPANT 8 I don't have.
Unice Harris: At all.
PARTICIPANT 8 No, absolutely
PARTICIPANT 8 I really there. There's several situations where I could name that they did not go. Well, I don't really know if I'm authorized to speak
PARTICIPANT 8 on those situations because they are confidential. And there's a whole lot of paperwork and agreements, and especially when you get to the High level division one schools.
PARTICIPANT 8 There's a lot of you know. I wanna want to say secrecy, but there's just confidentiality there. So I don't really want to touch on that. But I can give you this
PARTICIPANT 8 A few years ago
PARTICIPANT 8 our company EMAIL service provider, we actually switched
PARTICIPANT 8 from the old Gmail service provider to the NEW, the outlook like Microsoft Outlook. And then that was hard. That was difficult, and that wasn't really due
PARTICIPANT 8 necessarily to our own circumstances. We really weren't
PARTICIPANT 8 the cause of that. We really didn't have as much control over it, but it was just hard. It was just kind of a hard merger.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know. I mean, we we lost a lot of INFORMATION.
PARTICIPANT 8 Data
PARTICIPANT 8 was backed up.
PARTICIPANT 8 We got locked. I mean, it was just. There were bugs and glitches all over left and right.
PARTICIPANT 8 Inboxes weren't properly filtering out spam. So a lot of times.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, our our owners. They couldn't even really check the EMAIL because they were getting overloaded with spam.
PARTICIPANT 8 You know, it was. It was a lot of different things I could touch base on, but
PARTICIPANT 8 I would just wanna use that
PARTICIPANT 8 as a and I was. I wasn't really hands on with that Mert, with that
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, with that TRANSFORMATION. But I can't really speak on anything else that I was handling with the company. I'm sorry I just don't.
Unice Harris: No! You're fine!
PARTICIPANT 8 That level of clearance.
Unice Harris: Yep, you're absolutely fine. We'll skip right over that, because I don't want you to share anything that you can or should be sharing.
Unice Harris: Question number 7, is there any activity that you took to help create? A DIGITAL innovation mindset within the ORGANIZATION?
PARTICIPANT 8 Caves.
Unice Harris: You know you talked about the basketball? Was it difficult for
Unice Harris: Was it difficult for players to catch on to that NEW innovation, or did they pick that up right away.
PARTICIPANT 8 I mean, really.
PARTICIPANT 8 we just okay. Honestly, a shot tracker. We aim to improve the performance of competitive athletes who participate in TEAM sports at all levels while bringing elite level analytics to the masses.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, we see the game a little bit differently. We don't just see it for what it is, but also for what it can be.
PARTICIPANT 8 And
PARTICIPANT 8 I mean, we just kind of feel like we can turn a cold streak into a hot when we feel like
PARTICIPANT 8 we could, we? We could take underperforming TEAMS and turn them into CHAMPIONship TEAMS just by seeing gaps in the game and giving them keys to close those gaps and giving them the power to unleash their game.
PARTICIPANT 8 I feel like when you, when you put it that way.
PARTICIPANT 8 A lot of PEOPLE begin to see the vision and get to see. Hey, this is not just some useless jargon. This actually can help your TEAM win. This actually will help your TEAM win in me in in many ways. I mean.
PARTICIPANT 8 like I said, those Nba guys, they get real elite level analytics. They get shot percentages.
PARTICIPANT 8 they figure out where you know, like Star Trek, or similar to them, can show you where you're hot. You know your hotspots are. Where are you shooting cold, and where are you shooting hot?
PARTICIPANT 8 You know where? What? What places are your
PARTICIPANT 8 you know. Where are your sweet spots on the floor. Where are your weak spots on the floor? Where do you get your most assist? Where do you get your most turnovers like these are advanced stats that you know the I test isn't. Gonna you're not. Gonna remember this, you know, after a whole game, you're gonna have to go back through watch film, take notes and chop this up versus being able to kinda just
PARTICIPANT 8 watch the film and just watch the film to watch the film
PARTICIPANT 8 rather than having to go back through, and then, you know, pause every every 5 s, every 30 s, to take notes of what happened the last 30 s. It just makes coaches lives easier, which entirely is gonna make players lives easier. Because now
PARTICIPANT 8 coaches don't have to go through trial and error. They can just get straight to the point. Hey? We're shooting too low from 3 point line. Let's get the ball inside more or Hey.
PARTICIPANT 8 every time we get to the room below the feet so long we're getting found. Or, Hey, you guys, we're not making our fruit, those TEAM. We're shooting 50%. As a TEAM.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, we're just trying to bring the elite level analytics. And and then we feel like.
PARTICIPANT 8 if we can bring the elite level analytics and make it easier on these guys. Then they it makes it easier for them to get better.
Unice Harris: Awesome. Thank you for sharing that I appreciate that. So after the rollout into production.
Unice Harris: How did the TRANSFORMATION give you
Unice Harris: the results that were expected, I mean, did did the
Unice Harris: did the schools, the high schools? Did the colleges? Did you get what you expected? I mean? Was it marketed, you know.
Unice Harris: when they told you how it was supposed to perform? Did it perform that way?
PARTICIPANT 8 Yeah, it it definitely performed that way. I mean.
PARTICIPANT 8 it's really just about getting the data and the insights. You need to win more games, you know, with real time, statistical performance data at your fingertips, you have a deeper understanding of how your TEAM is really playing and what's really driving.
PARTICIPANT 8 You know, we we're being used currently by Benedicine Air Force case. State is one notable.
PARTICIPANT 8 They just went to the final 4.
Unice Harris: Hmm.
PARTICIPANT 8 This past year.
PARTICIPANT 8 they've been a high level elite program. Michigan state with Tom Izzo, Oklahoma University, Virginia. Tech.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, is just these are high level programs. And and I feel like they've all they all feel like as well as we do. Shot tracker has made them better.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know as far, especially with college basketball. The way the game is. Now, man, you gotta be able to shoot to 3. There's lights out shooters that are shooting to 3 from way behind 3 point.
PARTICIPANT 8 And
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, in a SYSTEM in the area where you have PEOPLE should be, there's a lot of guys who get to college who don't really have their game has developed yet.
PARTICIPANT 8 and you know all the coaches say, Hey, man, shot tracker hopes our young guys develop our young guys getting the gym way more than they used to.
PARTICIPANT 8 You know he's a coach. This is Tom Isos and John counter parties. Guys who have been doing this for a long time, like guys who have been doing this. You know, Jerome Tangs, Bill selves who have been doing this not only coaching, but coaching at a high, level, legendary names, and they tell us, Hey, man, when you're shot striker got here, man, our young guys getting the gym. We started seeing less of them in parties and campus, and more of them in the gym. And really I really I really genuinely believe that
PARTICIPANT 8 the numbers
PARTICIPANT 8 mean a lot. I I genuinely believe that the numbers mean a lot. I think that if you're in your head as a player and you're thinking, hey, man, I'm gonna have to go to the gym man. I know I need to get up these 500 shots. I know I need to really keep track of my shots, but I don't know.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, like shooting a basketball and county 500 shots is is pretty is pretty hard, especially when you have to keep track of how many you made and, miss, you know. So when they can just kind of get in there, just kind of throw on, shoot and sleep, man put it in their sock, or wherever they wanna be put it at, and then
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, just kind of play, and just play freely, and then they can look after the workout, and then they can see their numbers and see, okay, hey, man, they're pretty good, or, Hey, my, did pretty bad. That takes you out of that mindset of oh, let me count this. Make. Let me count this, miss, let me just play ball.
PARTICIPANT 8 or let me just shoot. And then when I get done, I get to see how good I did. Which is, gonna show me? Okay. So if I'm in this mind state, this is a good mindstay for me to be in in a game versus when you're in it. When you're working out, you don't literally in a game. Count your mason misses.
Unice Harris: Right.
PARTICIPANT 8 You might not even know how many points assist rebounds you had at the end of the game. If you're really in the game playing. So this kind of just helps for those guys get more game, feel game like workouts, which I feel like personally translate better on the port.
PARTICIPANT 8 You can work out in practice like you're in a game, and it feels like you're in a game and you get comfortable with that. And you see
PARTICIPANT 8 your shots are going in. Then when the game comes, it's gonna be that much easier because you only work out like you're playing in the game you don't have to worry about thinking about makes and misses. I feel like that's a bad way to train
PARTICIPANT 8 play is easy.
Unice Harris: Because the tool is is, is, is is calculating your analytics and tracking your analytics for you.
PARTICIPANT 8 Absolutely absolutely. You're not having to think about making the missing. No.
Unice Harris: That's amazing. That is amazing. So we've been talking about
Unice Harris: CHANGE MAANAGEMENT. Those things that we've been talking about, letting PEOPLE know what the
Unice Harris: what the tool or the TECHNOLOGY is gonna be doing, TRAINING PEOPLE on the NEW TECHNOLOGY or NEW innovation, allowing them to test it and then allowing them to provide a feedback relative to that TRAINING or relative to the the tool, and how they've used it. Can you share? Why, you think that CHANGE MAANAGEMENT of those things are important or not.
PARTICIPANT 8 She.
Unice Harris: Or not important at all.
PARTICIPANT 8 Okay, absolutely. Okay, CHANGE MAANAGEMENT is definitely important.
PARTICIPANT 8 Definitely important. And it is a very important because it helps to minimize disruptions to services
PARTICIPANT 8 when you're making CHANGES to critical SYSTEMS like
PARTICIPANT 8 it helps, it ties into cost MAANAGEMENT. Excuse me, it reduces risk
PARTICIPANT 8 and it enhances productivity
PARTICIPANT 8 cause I feel like with the clear plan in mind for how the CHANGES will be implemented. You already kind of know that the employees can kind of focus on their work. They don't have to have anxiety about what's gonna come next? Oh, is this gonna get in the way? Is this gonna be is this gonna be
PARTICIPANT 8 a roadblock, you know, this month? Or they kinda can just go forth and just be great as employee. They don't have to worry about
PARTICIPANT 8 a whole bunch of nonsense.
PARTICIPANT 8 So I feel like CHANGE MAANAGEMENT is very important because it enhances productivity, and it helps to reduce the risk
PARTICIPANT 8 of
PARTICIPANT 8 You know, the there's there's always potential risks that arise with CHANGES to a product.
PARTICIPANT 8 And I feel like I look at it as kind of like a baby. So if you have a baby, and you kind of just let the baby just
PARTICIPANT 8 go on its own like a toddler. I mean, they're gonna hurt themselves. They're NEW to the world. So you kinda have to. You know they they made a CHANGE from being in the womb to being in the world. So now you kinda have to guide them, you have to. You have to leave them alone and hold their hand. It's almost kind of the same with employees except their adults. You don't have to hold their hand, but you have to guide them.
PARTICIPANT 8 You definitely have to give them a heads up
PARTICIPANT 8 on what's coming.
PARTICIPANT 8 CHANGE on them. Yeah, you must. You have to get. And here a shot tracker. We actually are big fans of CHANGE MAANAGEMENT, because we actually CHANGE a lot. We pride ourselves on being like
PARTICIPANT 8 like being like water. You know, whatever we're wherever we're needed, we're gonna be. And we're gonna we're gonna fill up form of whatever we're needed by. So whatever schools need, you know, we're always looking to get that TECHNOLOGY and develop it. Or
PARTICIPANT 8 we have a better TECHNOLOGY, more efficient TECHNOLOGY comes out than we're trying to CHANGE. We're trying to get our hands on that. And so yeah, CHANGE is a is a thing that we talk about on a daily here on a shot track. We're always bouncing NEW ideas off of each other.
PARTICIPANT 8 And just keeping that honest level and honest form of COMMUNICATION.
Unice Harris: I like the analogy that you use and that's a great analogy like
Unice Harris: being a baby and moving like a toddler, and needing the guidance because a lot of times what we're trying to do in CHANGE is find a way
Unice Harris: to lead PEOPLE through CHANGE without trauma. It's hard to CHANGE how you've been doing things for 10 or 15 years. So you have to build in those CHANGES like you said, to guide them through without them getting hurt.
PARTICIPANT 8 Absolutely, absolutely.
Unice Harris: So warm.
PARTICIPANT 8 I love the way you put that. Yeah, making CHANGES without trauma. Absolutely.
PARTICIPANT 8 You know, it's not always needed, for you don't always have to put your hand on the fire.
PARTICIPANT 8 you know, to to to know that that fire burns. Sometimes someone can tell you, hey? That's gonna burn.
PARTICIPANT 8 And so you don't have to put your hand on the stove in order to find out. I I agree with that. Yeah, that that's that's basically the premise here.
Unice Harris: Absolutely. Do you want to add anything to?
Unice Harris: This this discussion? Any questions you have for me? Thank you so very much for taking the time to, you know. Answer the questions. I. You gave some great
Unice Harris: analogies, and some great INFORMATION about NEW TECHNOLOGY. And I think that you made my point very clearly, because
Unice Harris: a lot of times we think that DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION and NEW innovation is just in one segment. But in this
Unice Harris: MEETING. You've proven that innovation and NEW TECHNOLOGY crosses every kind of business sector. It's in healthcare.
Unice Harris: It's an IT,
Unice Harris: it's in retail. It's everywhere. And it's in basketball as well as you've ever as you've shown here today. So
Unice Harris: again, we wanna thank you so much for participating in the study and I can't wait to go back and analyze and listen to this. A little more thoroughly. If you want a copy of the end result of the study. Don't hesitate to EMAIL me at you, Harris. 3 Acapella
Unice Harris: University. Edu. Let me know if you want a copy of it, and then once I
Unice Harris: condense these down, I will send you a copy. If I don't hear back from you within 3 days, I'll go ahead and use it. If you want to CHANGE anything. Make any modifications to the study. You know, respond within 3 days, and if you don't, then, we, you know, move on with what we have.
PARTICIPANT 8 Okay, that sounds good. Thank you. Thank you for having me.
Unice Harris: Any questions for me at all.
PARTICIPANT 8 No, ma'am, thank you very much. I'll be on the.
Unice Harris: Yeah. And we look forward to seeing more about all that you're doing a as a certified scrum, master, and good luck on your congratulations on your graduation from college, and we'll be watching for you in the future.
PARTICIPANT 8 Thank you. You have a very good evening.
Unice Harris: Thank you, you, too. Bye, bye.
PARTICIPANT 8 BYE.